>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING,
I'M GWEN IFILL.
IFILL. >> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
ON THE NEWSHOUR
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT, A GLOBAL GLUT OF OIL:
MARKET SWINGS AND OVERSUPPLY
SEND CRUDE PRICES TO A SIX AND A
SEND CRUDE PRICES TO A
SIX AND A HALF-YEAR LOW.
HALF-YEAR LOW. >>
Woodruff: ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Woodruff: ALSO AHEAD THIS
TUESDAY, WE CONTINUE OUR SERIES
ON KATRINA, TEN YEARS LATER.
ON KATRINA, TEN YEARS LATER. HOW
ONE OF NEW ORLEANS' HARDEST-
HOW ONE OF NEW ORLEANS' HARDEST-
HIT NEIGHBORHOODS STRUGGLES TO
HIT NEIGHBORHOODS STRUGGLES
TO REBUILD ITS COMMUNITY THAT
REBUILD ITS COMMUNITY THAT
THRIVED BEFORE THE STORM.
>> LOOK AROUND YOU.
>> LOOK AROUND YOU. THERE'S
NO ECONOMIC DEVELOPME.NT
THERE'S NO ECONOMIC DEVELOPME.NT
THERE'S NO WAY TO SUSTAIN THIS
THERE'S NO WAY TO
SUSTAIN THIS COMMUNITY.
COMMUNITY. >> Ifill:
PLUS, THE 2016
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE 2016
CANDIDATES' COMMENTS ON
IMMIGRATION SPARK CONTROVERSY.
DIGGING INTO THE DATA ON
CHILDREN BORN IN THE U.S. TO
CHILDREN BORN IN THE U.S.
TO NON-CITIZEN PARENTS.
NON-CITIZEN PARENTS. >>
Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: U.S. FINANCIAL
MARKETS BATTLED ALL DAY TO
RECOUP ITS LOSSES, THEN,
COLLAPSED UNDER THE PRESSURE.
AT ONE POINT, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIALS WERE UP MORE THAN
440 POINTS, HELPED BY AN
INTEREST RATE CUT IN CHINA.
INTEREST RATE CUT IN CHINA. BUT
THE GAINS EVAPORATED IN THE
BUT THE GAINS EVAPORATED IN THE
FINAL MINUTES OF TRADING, MAKING
IT THE SIXTH LOSING DAY IN A
IT THE SIXTH LOSING
DAY IN A ROW.
ROW. IN THE END, THE DOW DUMPED
IN THE END, THE DOW DUMPED
ANOTHER 200 POINTS TO CLOSE
ANOTHER 200 POINTS TO
CLOSE BELOW 15,670.
BELOW 15,670. THE
NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 20
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 20
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 SLID 25.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS NO LETUP IN
THE STOCK SELL-OFF IN SHANGHAI,
AMID GATHERING GLOOM OVER
AMID GATHERING GLOOM
OVER CHINA'S ECONOMY.
CHINA'S ECONOMY. JONATHAN
MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
JONATHAN MILLER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS FROM
TELEVISION NEWS REPORTS
FROM HONG KONG.
HONG KONG. >> Reporter:
RED NUMBERS ARE
>> Reporter: RED
NUMBERS ARE BAD.
BAD. THE MARKET DOWN
NEARLY 8% AGAIN
THE MARKET DOWN NEARLY
8% AGAIN TODAY.
TODAY. CALAMITOUS FOR
SMALL INDIVIDUAL
CALAMITOUS FOR SMALL INDIVIDUAL
INVERSUSSERS, OF WHICH THERE ARE
INVERSUSSERS, OF WHICH THERE
ARE TENS OF MILLIONS.
TENS OF MILLIONS. LIKE
73-YEAR-OLD MR. GAO.
LIKE 73-YEAR-OLD MR. GAO. THE
SITUATION IN CHINA IS MUCH
THE SITUATION IN CHINA IS MUCH
WORSE THAN ANYWHERE ELSE, HE
WORSE THAN ANYWHERE
ELSE, HE SAYS.
SAYS. IT JUST KEEPS FALLING.
IT JUST KEEPS FALLING.
ORDINARY PEOPLE CANNOT AFFORD
ORDINARY PEOPLE
CANNOT AFFORD THIS.
THIS. MANY ORDINARY
PEOPLE HAVE HAD
MANY ORDINARY PEOPLE HAVE HAD
THEIR LIFE SAVINGS WIPED OUT.
TODAY, THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
PULLED ANOTHER LEVER IN AN
EFFORT TO END THIS FINANCIAL
CARNAGE, CUTTING INTEREST RATES
TO BOOST ECONOMY AND ENCOURAGE
TO BOOST ECONOMY AND
ENCOURAGE INVESTMENT.
INVESTMENT. MR. WONG
IS A HONG KONG FUND
MR. WONG IS A HONG KONG FUND
MANAGER, SCATHING OF HOW CHINESE
COMMUNIST LEADERS HANDLED THE
COMMUNIST LEADERS
HANDLED THE PROCESS.
PROCESS. >> THE PROBLEM
IS THEY GET IN
>> THE PROBLEM IS THEY
GET IN TOO EARLY.
TOO EARLY. >>
Reporter: THEY LOST
>> Reporter: THEY LOST
140 BILLION, ALREADY.
140 BILLION, ALREADY. >>
YES, BUT IF YOU COMPARE TO
>> YES, BUT IF YOU COMPARE TO
THE LEVEL LAST YEAR, ACTUALLY,
WE ARE STILL MUCH HIGHER THAN
WE ARE STILL MUCH HIGHER
THAN LAST YEAR'S LEVEL.
LAST YEAR'S LEVEL. >>
Reporter: VIEWS LIKE THAT,
>> Reporter: VIEWS LIKE THAT,
THE GREAT FALL OF CHINA, MORE OF
THE GREAT FALL OF CHINA, MORE
OF AN ADJUSTMENT, REALLY.
AN ADJUSTMENT, REALLY.
COMPANIES OPTIMISTICALLY
OVERVALUED.
OVERVALUED. THE MARKET
HAD SHOT UP 150% IN
THE MARKET HAD SHOT
UP 150% IN 12 MONTHS.
12 MONTHS. CHINA'S
CREDIT SQUEEZE, ONE OF
CHINA'S CREDIT SQUEEZE, ONE OF
THE SYMPTOMS OF DOWNTURN THAT
ALERTED INVERTS ALL WAS NOT
ALERTED INVERTS
ALL WAS NOT WELL.
WELL. THEN FURTHER
RATTLED BY NEW DATA
THEN FURTHER RATTLED BY NEW DATA
CONFIRMING THIS, THE SELLOFF.
WITH 40 MAINLAND COUNTRIES
LISTED, HONG KONG INVERTS WERE
LISTED, HONG KONG INVERTS
WERE VERY EXPOSED.
VERY EXPOSED. MANY
INVESTORS, BOTH
MANY INVESTORS, BOTH
INSTITUTIONAL AND INDIVIDUAL,
HAVE BEEN BADLY BURNED.
HAVE BEEN BADLY BURNED. UNTIL
THIS PAST WEEK, THERE WERE
UNTIL THIS PAST WEEK, THERE WERE
BASICALLY TWO KIND OF INVERTS IN
HONG KONG, THOSE WHO BELIEVED IN
CHINA AS AN INSTRUCTIBLE POWER
HOUSE AND ENGINE OF GLOBAL
GROWTH AND THOSE WHO DIDN'T.
GROWTH AND THOSE WHO
DIDN'T. NOW MOST DON'T.
NOW MOST DON'T. ASTROLOGERS
WARNED THE YEAR OF
ASTROLOGERS WARNED THE YEAR
OF THE GOAT HELD RISKS FOR
THE GOAT HELD RISKS FOR
FINANCIAL AFFAIRS, BUT GOAT
PEOPLE, THE LUCKY DIRECTION
PEOPLE, THE LUCKY
DIRECTION IGNORED.
IGNORED. BUT RIGHT
NOW, IT'S STILL ALL
BUT RIGHT NOW, IT'S
STILL ALL HEADI UP.NG
HEADI UP.NG >> Ifill:
THE SELL-OFF IN CHINA
>> Ifill: THE SELL-OFF IN CHINA
HAS PUT EVEN MORE PRESSURE ON
OIL PRICES, NOW AT THEIR LOWEST
SINCE THE RECESSION BEGAN.
BUT IN NEW YORK TODAY, OIL
MANAGED A SMALL COMEBACK,
CLOSING BACK ABOVE $39 A BARREL.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE OIL PRODUCTION
BOOM AND PRICE BUST, AFTER THE
BOOM AND PRICE BUST,
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
NEWS SUMMARY. >> Woodruff:
MEANWHILE, THE U.S.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE U.S.
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE HAS
SCALED BACK ITS ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
SCALED BACK ITS ECONOMIC
OUTLOOK FOR THE UNITED STATES.
FOR THE UNITED STATES. ITS
PROJECTION RELEASED TODAY
ITS PROJECTION RELEASED TODAY
CALLS FOR GROWTH OF 2.3% FOR
CALLS FOR GROWTH OF
2.3% FOR THIS YEAR.
THIS YEAR. IN JANUARY,
THE C.B.O. HAD
IN JANUARY, THE C.B.O. HAD
FORECAST GROWTH TO RUN 2.8% FOR
FORECAST GROWTH TO RUN
2.8% FOR THE YEAR.
THE YEAR. THE C.B.O.
ALSO LOWERED ITS
THE C.B.O. ALSO LOWERED ITS
FEDERAL BUDGET DEFICIT FORECAST
TO $426 BILLION, THE SMALLEST
TO $426 BILLION, THE
SMALLEST SINCE 2007.
SINCE 2007. >> Ifill:
THE HEAD OF THE
>> Ifill: THE HEAD OF THE
INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY PROMISED TODAY THAT ITS
AGENCY PROMISED TODAY THAT
ITS CHECKS OF IRAN'S NUCLEAR
CHECKS OF IRAN'S NUCLEAR
ACTIVITIES WILL BE "THE MOST
ACTIVITIES WILL BE "THE
MOST ROBUST" ANYWHERE.
ROBUST" ANYWHERE. THE U.N.
AGENCY IS SUPPOSED TO
THE U.N. AGENCY IS SUPPOSED TO
VERIFY IRANIAN COMPLIANCE WITH A
VERIFY IRANIAN COMPLIANCE
WITH A NUCLEAR DEAL.
NUCLEAR DEAL. I.A.E.A.
CHIEF YUKIYA AMANO
I.A.E.A. CHIEF YUKIYA AMANO
SPOKE IN VIENNA TODAY, AND SAID
IRAN TURNED OVER "SUBSTANTIVE"
INFORMATION ON ITS PROGRAM THIS
INFORMATION ON ITS
PROGRAM THIS MONTH.
MONTH. IT'S UNCLEAR
IF ANY OF THE
IT'S UNCLEAR IF ANY OF
THE INFORMATION IS NEW.
INFORMATION IS NEW. >>
Woodruff: MORE THAN 180,000
>> Woodruff: MORE THAN 180,000
PEOPLE ARE HOMELESS IN
BANGLADESH AFTER FLOODS,
LANDSLIDES AND A CYCLONE
INUNDATED THE COUNTRY.
INUNDATED THE COUNTRY. THE
RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT
THE RED CROSS AND RED CRESCENT
MADE AN APPEAL TODAY FOR NEARLY
$1 MILLION TO GIVE PEOPLE
TEMPORARY SHELTER.
TEMPORARY SHELTER. THE
REGION WAS HIT HARD BY
THE REGION WAS HIT HARD BY
CYCLONE KOMEN AT THE END OF
CYCLONE KOMEN AT
THE END OF JULY.
JULY. THAT ON TOP
OF FLOODING THAT
THAT ON TOP OF FLOODING
THAT BEGAN BACK IN JUNE.
BEGAN BACK IN JUNE. >>
Ifill: MORE THAN 46 MILLION
>> Ifill: MORE THAN 46 MILLION
PEOPLE WORLDWIDE NOW SUFFER FROM
PEOPLE WORLDWIDE NOW
SUFFER FROM DEMENTIA.
DEMENTIA. WHAT'S MORE, THE GROUP
WHAT'S MORE, THE GROUP
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
INTERNATIONAL ESTIMATES THAT
NUMBER WILL DOUBLE EVERY 20
NUMBER WILL DOUBLE
EVERY 20 YEARS.
YEARS. A NEW REPORT
OUT TODAY SAYS MORE
A NEW REPORT OUT TODAY SAYS MORE
THAN HALF OF DEMENTIA VICTIMS
NOW LIVE IN DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES, AND THE NUMBERS ARE
GROWING FASTEST IN EAST ASIA AND
GROWING FASTEST IN
EAST ASIA AND AFRICA.
AFRICA. >> Woodruff:
AND, THAT SYMBOL OF
>> Woodruff: AND, THAT SYMBOL OF
RELIABILITY, LONDON'S BIG BEN,
IS FINALLY SHOWING ITS AGE.
OFFICIALS SAY THE FAMED CLOCK
TOWER AT THE BRITISH PARLIAMENT
HAS BEEN RUNNING ABOUT SIX
HAS BEEN RUNNING ABOUT
SIX SECONDS FAST.
SECONDS FAST. SO, MECHANICS
HAD TO FINE-TUNE
SO, MECHANICS HAD TO FINE-TUNE
IT BY PLACING PENNIES ON THE
IT BY PLACING PENNIES
ON THE PENDULUM.
PENDULUM. A CLOCKSMITH
FOR PARLIAMENT SAYS
A CLOCKSMITH FOR PARLIAMENT
SAYS IT'S TO BE EXPECTED.
IT'S TO BE EXPECTED. AFTER
ALL, HE SAYS, IT'S LIKE
AFTER ALL, HE SAYS, IT'S LIKE
RUNNING A CAR FOR 24 HOURS A
DAY, 365 DAYS A YEAR, FOR THE
DAY, 365 DAYS A YEAR,
FOR THE LAST 156 YEARS.
LAST 156 YEARS. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
OIL PRICES SWING DURING A GLOBAL
OIL PRICES SWING DURING A
GLOBAL MARKET MELTDOWN.
MARKET MELTDOWN. TURKEY'S
PRIME MINISTER FAILS TO
TURKEY'S PRIME MINISTER FAILS TO
BUILD A COALITION GOVERNMENT.
WHAT NEW ELECTIONS MEAN FOR THE
FIGHT AGAINST EXTREMISM IN THE
FIGHT AGAINST EXTREMISM
IN THE REGION.
REGION. AND MUCH MORE.
>> Ifill: ONLY A YEAR AGO, CRUDE
OIL WAS TRADING AT MORE THAN
OIL WAS TRADING AT MORE
THAN $100 A BARREL.
$100 A BARREL. BUT PRICES
HAVE PLUNGED, DOWN
BUT PRICES HAVE PLUNGED, DOWN
MORE THAN 60% FROM ITS PEAK.
MUCH OF THAT DROP HAS OCCURRED
IN JUST THE PAST FEW WEEKS.
INCREASED SUPPLY AND DECLINING
DEMAND FOR OIL, PLUS THE ONGOING
SLOWDOWN IN CHINA'S ECONOMY ARE
PART OF WHAT'S BEEN FUELING
TURMOIL IN THE FINANCIAL
MARKETS, AND FOR SOME OF THE
MAJOR OIL PRODUCING COUNTRIES AS
MAJOR OIL PRODUCING
COUNTRIES AS WELL.
WELL. RUSSELL GOLD
COVERS THIS AS THE
RUSSELL GOLD COVERS THIS AS THE
SENIOR ENERGY REPORTER FOR THE
SENIOR ENERGY REPORTER FOR
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL."
"WALL STREET JOURNAL." HE'S
THE AUTHOR OF A BOOK ABOUT
HE'S THE AUTHOR OF A BOOK ABOUT
FRACKING AND ITS FALLOUT, CALLED
FRACKING AND ITS FALLOUT,
CALLED "THE BOOM."
"THE BOOM." THE PRICE
OF CRUDE OIL IS DOWN
THE PRICE OF CRUDE OIL IS
DOWN SO MUCH SINCE 2014.
SO MUCH SINCE 2014.
WHAT'S THE BASIC REASON?
WHAT'S THE BASIC REASON? >>
WELL, THE BASIC REASON IS
>> WELL, THE BASIC REASON IS
THAT THE SUPPLY CONTINUES TO
THAT THE SUPPLY
CONTINUES TO GROW.
GROW. THE UNITED
STATES WHICH HAS SORT
THE UNITED STATES WHICH HAS SORT
OF BEEN THE BIG STORE OF IT OVER
THE LAST FEW YEARS HAS BEEN
PUMPING MORE AND MORE OIL.
IT'S BARELY FLATTENING EVEN AS
IT'S BARELY FLATTENING
EVEN AS PRICES COME DOWN.
PRICES COME DOWN.
EVERYONE THOUGHT THE U.S.
PRODUCTION WOULD FALL OFF A
CLIFF AND THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
SAUDI ARABIA HAS BEEN INCREASING
PRODUCTION, SOMETHING YOU
WOULDN'T EXPECT WITH THESE OIL
WOULDN'T EXPECT WITH
THESE OIL PRICES.
PRICES. EVERYONE
THOUGHT, WELL, WHAT
EVERYONE THOUGHT, WELL, WHAT
WOULD SAVE THE DAY IS GROWING
CHINESE DEMAND,THA IT WILL SOP
CHINESE DEMAND,THA IT WILL
SOP UP ALL THE EXTRA OIL.
UP ALL THE EXTRA OIL.
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED. IN
THE LAST WEEK, WE'VE SEEN
IN THE LAST WEEK, WE'VE SEEN
THERE ARE A LOT OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHETHER THERE IS GOING TO
BE CHINESE DEMAND IN THE NEXT
BE CHINESE DEMAND
IN THE NEXT YEAR.
YEAR. >> Ifill: WHY HASN'T THERE
>> Ifill: WHY HASN'T THERE
BEEN INCENTIVE TO CUT BACK IN
PRODUCTION AS A WAY OF DRIVING
PRODUCTION AS A WAY OF
DRIVING THE PRICE BACK UP.
THE PRICE BACK UP. >>
THERE IS BEEN A LOT OF
>> THERE IS BEEN A LOT OF
INCENTIVE AS YOU LOOK AT THE
MACRO LEVEL ACROSS THE ENTIRE
MACRO LEVEL ACROSS
THE ENTIRE INDUSTRY.
INDUSTRY. BUT IF
YOU'RE A PRODUCING
BUT IF YOU'RE A PRODUCING
COUNTRY OR COMPANY, THERE IS NO
INCENTIVE TO CUT BACK BECAUSE
YOU'RE WAITING TO HOPE THAT
SOMEBODY ELSE CUTS BACK FIRST.
IF YOU ARE THE ONE WHO CUTS
BACK, THAT'S GOING TO DRY UP
BACK, THAT'S GOING TO
DRY UP YOUR REVENUE.
YOUR REVENUE. IF YOU'RE
A COMPANY, THEN YOU'RE
IF YOU'RE A COMPANY, THEN YOU'RE
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO PAY YOUR
NOT GOING TO BE ABLE
TO PAY YOUR WORKERS.
WORKERS. IF YOU'RE A
COUNTRY, YOU'RE NOT
IF YOU'RE A COUNTRY, YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO BE ABLE TO FUND SOCIAL
GOING TO BE ABLE TO
FUND SOCIAL PROGRAMS.
PROGRAMS. >> Ifill:
WHERE IS ALL THIS
>> Ifill: WHERE IS ALL THIS OIL
COMING FROM, ESPECIALLY IN
OIL COMING FROM,
ESPECIALLY IN THE U.S.?
THE U.S.? >> WELL, IN
THE U.S., THERE IS
>> WELL, IN THE U.S., THERE IS
BEEN AN INCREDIBLE BOOM BROUGHT
ABOUT BY FRACKING, MOSTLY COMING
FROM TEXAS AND NORTH DAKOTA.
WE'RE PRODUCING MORE OIL THAN WE
WE'RE PRODUCING MORE OIL THAN
WE HAVE SINCE THE EARLY 1970s.
HAVE SINCE THE EARLY 1970s.
IT'S BEEN A REMARKABLE
TURNAROUND.
TURNAROUND. >> Ifill:
AND AS A RESULT OF
>> Ifill: AND AS A RESULT
OF THESE LOW PRICES, WHAT'S
THESE LOW PRICES, WHAT'S
HAPPENED TO CONSUMPTION?
HAPPENED TO CONSUMPTION? ARE
AMERICANS SAYING, WELL,
ARE AMERICANS SAYING, WELL,
PRICES ARE LOW, I'LL JUST KEEP
PRICES ARE LOW, I'LL
JUST KEEP GOING AS I GO?
GOING AS I GO? OR ARE
THEY DOING WHAT AMERICANS
OR ARE THEY DOING WHAT AMERICANS
DO, WHICH IS BUYING MORE?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GREAT
>> WELL, THAT'S A
GREAT QUESTION.
QUESTION. BACK IN
2007, THERE WAS WHAT
BACK IN 2007, THERE WAS WHAT
SOME AN IT'S CALLED PEAK
GASOLINE CONSUMPTION IN THE
GASOLINE CONSUMPTION
IN THE UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES. WE'D HIT
THE MAXIMUM WE WERE
WE'D HIT THE MAXIMUM WE WERE
GOING TO HIT BECAUSE THE CARS
GOING TO HIT BECAUSE THE
CARS WERE GETTING MORE FUEL
WERE GETTING MORE
FUEL EFFICIENT.
EFFICIENT. THAT'S
STARTING TO TURN AROUND.
THAT'S STARTING TO TURN AROUND.
PEOPLE ARE BUYING LESS FUEL
EFFICIENT CARS AND DRIVING
EFFICIENT CARS AND
DRIVING FURTHER.
FURTHER. SO, YOU KNOW,
YOU'RE OUT THERE,
SO, YOU KNOW, YOU'RE OUT THERE,
SEEING THE $2.50 GASOLINE PRICES
IN A LOT OF PLACES IN THE
COUNTRY AND PEOPLE BEGINNING TO
COUNTRY AND PEOPLE
BEGINNING TO DRIVE MORE.
DRIVE MORE. DEMAND IN
THE U.S. IS GOING UP.
DEMAND IN THE U.S. IS GOING
UP. GLOBALLY, IT'S FLAT.
GLOBALLY, IT'S FLAT. I SO
THE U.S. IS BUYING BIG
I SO THE U.S. IS BUYING
BIG TRUCKS, FOR INSTANCE.
TRUCKS, FOR INSTANCE. >>
WE'RE SEEING THAT COMING
>> WE'RE SEEING THAT
COMING BACK, ABSOLUTELY.
BACK, ABSOLUTELY. >> Ifill:
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE OTHER COUNTRIES.
OTHER COUNTRIES. YOU
MENTIONED SAUDI ARABIA.
YOU MENTIONED SAUDI ARABIA.
WHAT ABOUT OIL PRODUCTION IN
IRAQ, VENEZUELA, NIGERIA,
IRAQ, VENEZUELA,
NIGERIA, RUSSIA?
RUSSIA? >> WELL,
IRAQ IS ALSO, LIKE
>> WELL, IRAQ IS ALSO, LIKE
SAUDI ARABIA, RAMPED UP ITS OIL
SAUDI ARABIA, RAMPED
UP ITS OIL EXPORTS.
EXPORTS. THEY'RE
PART OF THE REASON
THEY'RE PART OF THE
REASON BEHIND THIS.
BEHIND THIS. BUT IF YOU
LOOK AT A PLACE LIKE
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT A PLACE
LIKE VENEZUELA, THEY HAVE
VENEZUELA, THEY HAVE
TRIPLE-DIGIT INFLATION.
TRIPLE-DIGIT INFLATION. THE
I.M.F.C. IS CONTRACTING.
THE I.M.F.C. IS CONTRACTING.
THEY'RE IN THE LEADING OF
COUNTRIES IN TROUBLE ECONOMIC
LIMIT RUSSIA IS BELIEVED TO BE
IN A RECESSION BECAUSE OF LOW
IN A RECESSION BECAUSE
OF LOW OIL PRICES.
OIL PRICES. LOW OIL
PRICES, WHEN YOU'RE A
LOW OIL PRICES, WHEN YOU'RE A
PRODUCING NATION AND THAT'S YOUR
PRIMARY ECONOMIC OUTPUT IN A
PLACE LIKE VENEZUELA ON NIGERIA,
THIS IS A REALLY BAD SCENARIO
THIS IS A REALLY BAD
SCENARIO FOR THEM.
FOR THEM. >> Ifill:
BACK TO CHINA.
>> Ifill: BACK TO CHINA.
WE'VE WATCHED THE INCREDIBLE
TURMOIL IN THE CHINESE MARKETS.
WHICH IS THE CHICKEN AND EGG, OR
IS OIL DRIVING ANY OF THIS, OR
ARE THE MARKETS DRIVING THE OIL
ARE THE MARKETS DRIVING
THE OIL PRICES?
PRICES? >> WELL, I
THINK RIGHT NOW IT
>> WELL, I THINK RIGHT NOW IT
SEEMS TO ME LIKE THE MARKETS ARE
SEEMS TO ME LIKE THE MARKETS
ARE DRIVING THE OIL PRICES.
DRIVING THE OIL PRICES. WHEN
YOU SEE THE CHEESE ECONOMY
WHEN YOU SEE THE CHEESE ECONOMY
BEGIN TO REALLY SLOW DOWN OR AT
LEAST THE SIGNALS ARE VERY CLEAR
THAT IT'S SLOWING DOWN, THEN,
ALL OF A SUDDEN, YOU DON'T HAVE
THE BIG GROWTH AND DEMAND THAT,
UP UNTIL A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO,
EVERYONE WAS EXPECTING THE
INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY
EARLIER THIS MONTH PUT OUT THEIR
BIG MONTHLY REPORT SAYING WE'LL
SEE A LOT OF GROWTH AND DEMAND
AT THE END OF THIS YEAR.
THAT'S REALLY A QUESTION MARK
THAT'S REALLY A
QUESTION MARK NOW.
NOW. IF YOU'RE A
PRODUCING COMPANY
IF YOU'RE A PRODUCING COMPANY
NOW, JUST A COUPLE -- LET AGO, Y
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK PUT OUT A
SURVEY AND ASKED PRODUCERS,
WELL, WHAT DO YOU THINK THE OIL
PRICE IS GOING TO BE AT THE END
PRICE IS GOING TO BE AT
THE END OF THE YEAR?
OF THE YEAR? AND THE
ANSWER WAS $63.
AND THE ANSWER WAS $63. I THINK
THEY WILL BE ECSTATIC IF
I THINK THEY WILL BE ECSTATIC IF
THEY GET TO $63 BY THE END OF
THEY GET TO $63 BY
THE END OF THE YEAR.
THE YEAR. >> Ifill:
FINALLY WE, TALKED A
>> Ifill: FINALLY WE, TALKED A
GREAT DEAL IN THIS PROGRAM ABOUT
THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL AND THERE
THE IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL AND
THERE IS QUESTIONS ABOUT OIL
IS QUESTIONS ABOUT OIL
PRODUCTION INVOLVED IN THAT AS
PRODUCTION INVOLVED
IN THAT AS WELL.
WELL. DOES THAT CHANGE
THE NERVOUSNESS
DOES THAT CHANGE THE NERVOUSNESS
ABOUT THAT DEAL AT ALL?
DOES THIS HAVE AN EFFECT?
DOES THIS HAVE AN EFFECT? >>
WELL, I THINK THE IMPACT IT
>> WELL, I THINK THE IMPACT IT
COULD HAVE IS, IF THE DEAL GOES
THROUGH, THAT'S JUST ONE MORE
WEIGHT ON OIL PRICES, BECAUSE
IRAN WANTS TO COME BACK AND
DOUBLE THEIR PRODUCTION, ADD
ANOTHER MILLION BARRELS A DAY OF
ANOTHER MILLION BARRELS A DAY
OF EXPORT ON TO THE MARKET.
EXPORT ON TO THE MARKET. SO
IF YOU'RE SORT OF LOOKING
SO IF YOU'RE SORT OF LOOKING
LONG-TERM AND THINKING, WELL,
WHEN DO OIL PRICES REBOUND, IF
THE IRAN DEAL GOES THROUGH, THEN
THAT'S JUST ONE MORE BERT SIGN
THAT'S JUST ONE MORE BERT
SIGN FOR OIL PRICES.
FOR OIL PRICES. >>
Ifill: WE'LL BE WATCHING
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE
WATCHING THESE.
THESE. SO MANY FACTORS
WHICH CAN AFFECT
SO MANY FACTORS WHICH
CAN AFFECT THE OUTCOME.
THE OUTCOME. RUSSELL
GOLD OF "THE WALL STREET
RUSSELL GOLD OF "THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL," THANK YOU SO MUCH.
JOURNAL," THANK YOU SO
MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS MORE
POLITICIAL UNCERTAINTY TODAY
WITHIN ONE OF AMERICA'S KEY
ALLIES IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
ALLIES IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE.
ISLAMIC STATE. TURKEY'S
PRESIDENT TAYYIP
TURKEY'S PRESIDENT TAYYIP
ERDOGAN ANNOUNCED LATE YESTERDAY
THAT NEW PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS
WILL BE HELD LATER THIS FALL.
THIS CAME AFTER HIS RULING A.K.
PARTY LOST ITS MAJORITY IN THE
JUNE ELECTION FOR THE FIRST TIME
JUNE ELECTION FOR THE
FIRST TIME SINCE 2002.
SINCE 2002. EFFORTS
SINCE THEN TO PRODUCE A
EFFORTS SINCE THEN TO PRODUCE A
COALITION GOVERNMENT FAILED.
TODAY, HE ASKED HIS PRIME
MINISTER TO FORM AN INTERIM
CABINET AND GOVERNMENT UNTIL
CABINET AND GOVERNMENT
UNTIL NOVEMBER 1.
NOVEMBER 1. BUT ALREADY
TWO OPPOSITION
BUT ALREADY TWO OPPOSITION
PARTIES HAVE REFUSED TO TAKE
PARTIES HAVE REFUSED
TO TAKE PART.
PART. THIS COMES
AS TURKEY IS NOW
THIS COMES AS TURKEY IS NOW
LETTING THE U.S. USE ITS
MILITARY BASES IN THE CAMPAIGN
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE.
AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE. CRICS
ITCHARGE THAT ANKARA'S OWN
CRICS ITCHARGE THAT ANKARA'S OWN
EFFORTS AGAINST EXTREMISM FOCUS
TOO MUCH ON ATTACKING TURKEY'S
MILITANT KURDISH GROUP, THE
P.K.K., AND NOT NEARLY ENOUGH ON
P.K.K., AND NOT
NEARLY ENOUGH ON I.S.
I.S. TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND THE LATEST
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND THE LATEST
DEVELOPMENTS AND WHAT THEY MEAN
IS OUR CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER.
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET
WARNER. MARGARET, HELLO.
MARGARET, HELLO. >> HELLO.
>> HELLO. >> Woodruff:
SO THIS IS JUST
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS JUST
TWO MONTHS AFTER THE LAST
TWO MONTHS AFTER
THE LAST ELECTION.
ELECTION. WHAT DO
WE MAKE OF IT ALL?
WHAT DO WE MAKE OF IT ALL? >>
THIS IS SO SOMPLECATED, JUDY.
>> THIS IS SO SOMPLECATED, JUDY.
LET'S JUST START WITH THE PURE
LET'S JUST START WITH
THE PURE POLITICS.
POLITICS. BOTTOM LINE,
ERDOGAN SUCCEEDED.
BOTTOM LINE, ERDOGAN SUCCEEDED.
HIS PARTY HAS ISLAMIST ROOTS,
RULED IN TOTE MALL JORT IN
PARLIAMENT SINCE COMING TO
PARLIAMENT SINCE
COMING TO POWER.
POWER. SUDDENLY,
HE WAS FACED WITH
SUDDENLY, HE WAS FACED WITH
HAVING TO MAKE A COALITION
GOVERNMENT AND I'M TOLD BY
PEOPLE CLOSE TO THE NEGOTIATIONS
HE NEVER REALLY EMPOWERED HIS
PRIME MINISTER TO GIVE AWAY
PRIME MINISTER TO
GIVE AWAY ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. IF HE WAS
INVITING ANOTHER PARTY
IF HE WAS INVITING ANOTHER PARTY
TO JOIN, HE WOULDN'T EVEN GIVE
THEM THE HEAD OF THE MINISTRY.
WHO WOULD WANT TO JOIN A
WHO WOULD WANT TO JOIN
A COALITION LIKE THAT?
COALITION LIKE THAT?
MEANWHILE, HE RENEWS THIS
SHOOTING WAR WITH THE P.K.K.,
THIS TERRORIST GROUP THE U.S.
THIS TERRORIST GROUP THE
U.S. CALLS TERRORISTS.
CALLS TERRORISTS. IT'S
KURDISH MILITANTS WHO
IT'S KURDISH MILITANTS WHO
FOUGHT A CIVIL WAR WITH TURKEY
FOR YEARS AND YEARS, THAT'S BEEN
FOR YEARS AND YEARS,
THAT'S BEEN RENEWED.
RENEWED. THE ANALYSIS
IS THAT ERDOGAN
THE ANALYSIS IS THAT ERDOGAN
HOPES THAT NOW HE WILL BE SEEN
AS THIS WAR-TIME PRESIDENT
AGAINST NOT ONLY ISLECIES BUT --
ICBUT I.S.I.S. BUT THE P.K.K. TT
HE MIGHT WIN THE ELECTION AND
GET THE SUPERMAJORITY, THE 60%
WHICH WILL LET HIM REWRITE THE
CONSTITUTION AND BE A POWERFUL,
CONSTITUTION AND BE A
POWERFUL, POWERFUL PRESIDENT.
POWERFUL PRESIDENT. >>
Woodruff: WASN'T ATE MAJOR
>> Woodruff: WASN'T ATE MAJOR
SURPRISE BACK IN JUNE IN THE
ELECTIONS THAT A KURDISH PARTY
GOT ENOUGH VOTES TO WIN SEATS IN
GOT ENOUGH VOTES TO WIN SEATS
IN THE PAR PARLIAMENT?
THE PAR PARLIAMENT? >>
THAT WAS THE BIG SURPRISE.
>> THAT WAS THE BIG SURPRISE.
IT WAS A KURDISH PARTY IN THAT
IT WAS A KURDISH PARTY
IN THAT THEY ATTRACTEDD
THEY ATTRACTEDD WHO WERE
IMPRESSED BY ERDOGAN'S
WHO WERE IMPRESSED
BY ERDOGAN'S POWER.
POWER. SOME TURNED
OUT TO PROTEST ORDER
SOME TURNED OUT TO PROTEST ORDER
WAN'S BULL DOZING THE PARKING
LOT IN ISTANBUL, THEY JOINED THE
KURDISH PARTY, GOT 13% AND MADE
IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR ORDER WAN'S
IT IMPOSSIBLE FOR ORDER
WAN'S PARTY TO GET 60%.
PARTY TO GET 60%. ERDOGAN
WAS SO ALARMED BY THIS
ERDOGAN WAS SO ALARMED BY THIS
HE WOULD NOTw3 EVEN LET HIS PRIE
MINISTER NEGOTIATE WITH THE
KURDISH PARTY IN SEARCH OF A
KURDISH PARTY IN SEARCH
OF A RULING COALITION.
RULING COALITION. THE TWO
OF THEM TOGETHER COULD
THE TWO OF THEM TOGETHER
COULD HAVE PUT ONE TOGETHER.
HAVE PUT ONE TOGETHER.
SO, AGAIN, THE ERDOGAN
CALCULATION IS NOW THEY HAVE A
RENEWED FIGHT WITH THE P.K.K.
WHICH IS PRETTY MUCH A TERRORIST
GROUP, THAT MAYBE SOME OF THESE
LIBERALS AND MID MIDDLE CLASS
VOTERS WILL PEEL AWAY FROM THE
VOTERS WILL PEEL AWAY FROM
THE PRO KURDISH PARTY.
PRO KURDISH PARTY. THERE
ARE NO POLLS OUT.
THERE ARE NO POLLS OUT. BUT
ANALYST WHO IS TALK TO KURDS
BUT ANALYST WHO IS TALK TO KURDS
THINK THAT MAY BE THE CASE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS AT ISSUE
FOR THE UNITED STATES?
FOR THE UNITED STATES? >> THE
BIG ISSUE FOR THE UNITED
>> THE BIG ISSUE FOR THE
UNITED STATES IS GETTING AND
STATES IS GETTING AND
MAINTAINING TURKEY'S COOPERATION
IN THE COALITION AGAINST
IN THE COALITION
AGAINST I.S.I.S.
I.S.I.S. TURKEY WAS
RELUCTANT TO GET
TURKEY WAS RELUCTANT
TO GET DRAWN IN.
DRAWN IN. THIS SUMMER,
REMARKABLY, IT SAID
THIS SUMMER, REMARKABLY, IT SAID
WE'LL LET YOU USE OUR BASES.
THESE ARE KEY BASES IN TURKEY
THAT MAKE IT SO MUCH EASIER AND
FASTER TO LAUNCH BOMBING RUNS
INTO BOTH SYRIA AND IRAQ.
INTO BOTH SYRIA AND IRAQ. IN
OTHER WORDS, SO THE FIGHTER
IN OTHER WORDS, SO THE FIGHTER
JETS DON'T HAVE TO COME ALL THE
JETS DON'T HAVE TO COME ALL
THE WAY UP FROM THE GULF.
WAY UP FROM THE GULF.
SO THERE IS THAT.
SO THERE IS THAT. THEN THE
UNITED STATES ALSO WANT
THEN THE UNITED STATES ALSO WANT
TO PRESERVE A WORKING ALLIANCE
IT HAS r WITH SOME SYRIAN KURDIH
MILITANTS IN SYRIA PROVINGQ&C
I.S.I.S. AND SERVING AS SPOTTERS
I.S.I.S. AND SERVING AS
SPOTTERS FOR BOMBING RUNS.
FOR BOMBING RUNS. I GUESS
WHAT I'M TOLD IS AS LONG
I GUESS WHAT I'M TOLD IS AS LONG
AS TURKEY WILL ALLOW THE U.S.
THOSE TWO THINGS, WASHINGTON'S
WILLING TO LOOK THE OTHER WAY IF
WILLING TO LOOK THE OTHER WAY
IF ERDOGAN USES THE COVER OF
ERDOGAN USES THE COVER OF
JOINING THIS COALITION TO REALLY
GO AFTER HIS REAL ENEMIES, THE
GO AFTER HIS REAL
ENEMIES, THE KURDS.
KURDS. >> Woodruff: SNDSOU LIKE
>> Woodruff: SNDSOU LIKE YOU'RE
SAYING THIS IS A MARRIAGE
YOU'RE SAYING THIS IS A MARRIAGE
OF CONVENIENCE BUT THE INTERESTS
ARE NOT ALWAYS ALIGNED.
>> NOT AT ALL.
>> NOT AT ALL. THAT'S
EXACTLY THE WORD, JUDY.
THAT'S EXACTLY THE WORD, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER,
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT, THANK YOU.
>> ALWAYS A PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: FORMER
BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY
FORMER BRITISH FOREIGN SECRETARY
DAVID MILLIBAND ON THE MIGRANT
DAVID MILLIBAND ON THE
MIGRANT CRISIS IN EUROPE.
CRISIS IN EUROPE. THE
IMMIGRATION DEBATE BOILS
THE IMMIGRATION DEBATE BOILS
OVER, AGAIN, ON THE CAMPAIGN
OVER, AGAIN, ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
TRAIL. AND, AS THE
PRICE OF OIL HITS
AND, AS THE PRICE OF OIL HITS
NEW LOWS, THE FUTURE OF FOSSIL
NEW LOWS, THE FUTURE
OF FOSSIL FUEL.
FUEL. THE SIGHT OF NEW ORLEANS
THE SIGHT OF NEW ORLEANS
RESIDENTS PERCHED ON ROOFTOPS
SIGNALING FOR HELP AS FLOOD
WATERS ROSE BECAME ONE OF THE
ICONIC IMAGES OF HURRICANE
ICONIC IMAGES OF
HURRICANE KATRINA.
KATRINA. MANY OF THOSE
STRANDED LIVED IN
MANY OF THOSE STRANDED LIVED IN
NEW ORLEANS' LOWER NINTH WARD.
AFTER THE STORM, AS PEOPLE WADED
THROUGH THE WRECKAGE, THE LOWER
NINTH BECAME MORE THAN A
NINTH BECAME MORE
THAN A DISASTER AREA.
DISASTER AREA. IT ALSO
BECAME A SYMBOL OF
IT ALSO BECAME A SYMBOL OF
SOCIETAL FAILURE, INCLUDING
PERSISTENT POVERTY, CRUMBLING
HOMES AND STREETS, AND RACIAL
HOMES AND STREETS,
AND RACIAL TENSION.
TENSION. TEN YEARS
LATER, WE WENT BACK TO
TEN YEARS LATER, WE WENT BACK TO
THE LOWER NINTH WARD, WHERE THE
RECOVERY THAT HAS BOOSTED MUCH
OF THE CITY, HAS BEEN SLOW TO
OF THE CITY, HAS
BEEN SLOW TO ARRIVE.
ARRIVE. WILLIAM BRANGHAM
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Brangham: EVERY MORNING,
BURNELL COTLON SETS UP TABLES
OUTSIDE HIS LOWER NINTH WARD
MARKET TO PROVIDE A GATHERING
PLACE FOR THE CUSTOMERS HE HOPES
PLACE FOR THE CUSTOMERS
HE HOPES WILL COME.
WILL COME. HIS SMALL
CORNER GROCERY IS ONE
HIS SMALL CORNER GROCERY IS ONE
OF THE FEW BUSINESSES THAT HAVE
OPENED IN THIS HEAVILY DAMAGED
NEIGHBORHOOD OF NEW ORLEANS.
>> WHEN WE FIRST PURCHASED THE
BUILDING, BELIEVE IT OR NOT,
THIS IS WHAT IT LOOKED LIKE.
>> Brangham: SO YOU LOOKED AT
THAT BUILDING IN THAT CONDITION
THAT BUILDING IN THAT
CONDITION AND THOUGHT:
AND THOUGHT: I'M GOING
TO BUY THAT AND BUILD
I'M GOING TO BUY THAT AND
BUILD A BUSINESS THERE?
A BUSINESS THERE? >> AS
CRAZY AS THAT SOUNDS, YES
>> AS CRAZY AS THAT
SOUNDS, YES SIR.
SIR. I'M A VISIONARY.
I'M A VISIONARY.
(LAUGHS)
(LAUGHS) >> Brangham:
COTLON AND HIS WIFE
>> Brangham: COTLON AND HIS WIFE
KEESHA INVESTED THEIR ENTIRE
LIFE'S SAVINGS FIVE YEARS AGO TO
LIFE'S SAVINGS FIVE YEARS
AGO TO START THIS BUSINESS.
START THIS BUSINESS. EVEN
THOUGH THE POPULATION OF
EVEN THOUGH THE POPULATION OF
THE LOWER NINTH WARD IS JUST
HALF OF WHAT IT WAS BEFORE
HALF OF WHAT IT WAS
BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA.
HURRICANE KATRINA. >> THE
MAJOR BOX STORES SAID
>> THE MAJOR BOX STORES SAID
THEY'RE NOT COMING BACK TO THE
NINTH WARD BECAUSE THERE AREN'T
NINTH WARD BECAUSE THERE
AREN'T ENOUGH PEOPLE.
ENOUGH PEOPLE. AND THE
PEOPLE THAT WANT TO COME
AND THE PEOPLE THAT WANT TO COME
BACK SAY THEY'RE NOT COMING BACK
BECAUSE THERE ARE NO STORES.
>> Brangham: IT'S THE CLASSIC
CHICKEN-AND-EGG PROBLEM THAT
AFFECTS VIRTUALLY EVERY ASPECT
OF LIFE HERE IN THE LOWER NINTH
OF LIFE HERE IN THE
LOWER NINTH WARD.
WARD. WITH SO MANY
RESIDENTS STILL
WITH SO MANY RESIDENTS STILL
GONE, CAN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD EVER
GONE, CAN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
EVER BOUNCE BACK?
BOUNCE BACK? >> LOOK AROUND YOU.
>> LOOK AROUND YOU. THERE'S
NO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
THERE'S NO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
THERE'S NO WAY TO SUSTAIN THIS
COMMUNITY IF YOU DON'T GENERATE
COMMUNITY IF YOU DON'T
GENERATE BUSINESS BACK HERE.
BUSINESS BACK HERE. >>
Brangham: REV. WILLIE CALHOUN
>> Brangham: REV. WILLIE CALHOUN
SHOWED ME WHAT ONCE HAD BEEN A
MAJOR COMMERCIAL THOROUGHFARE.
>> THIS USED TO BE A DRUG STORE.
ON THE CORNER WE HAD A CLEANERS.
NEXT TO THE CLEANERS WE HAD A
NEXT TO THE CLEANERS
WE HAD A CHURCH.
CHURCH. >> Brangham: RIGHT HERE?
>> Brangham: RIGHT HERE?
BOOM, BOOM, BOOM?
BOOM, BOOM, BOOM? HE SAYS,
EVEN AS THE CITY TOUTS
HE SAYS, EVEN AS THE CITY TOUTS
ITS ECONOMIC REVIVAL DOWNTOWN
AND IN OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS,
OFFICIALS JUST HAVEN'T DONE
ENOUGH TO CREATE JOBS HERE.
ENOUGH TO CREATE JOBS HERE. >>
IF YOU COME BACK HERE, YOU'RE
>> IF YOU COME BACK HERE, YOU'RE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW CAN YOU
SURVIVE IF YOU DON'T HAVE WORK?
SURVIVE IF YOU DON'T
HAVE WORK? YOU CAN'T.
YOU CAN'T. >> Brangham:
TEN YEARS AFTER THE
>> Brangham: TEN YEARS AFTER THE
STORM, THE LOWER NIN WARTHD IS A
CHECKER-BOARD OF DEVELOPMENT.
NEW AND REBUILT HOMES STAND NEXT
NEW AND REBUILT HOMES STAND
NEXT TO BOARDED UP ONES.
TO BOARDED UP ONES. THERE
ARE OVER 100 OF BRAD
THERE ARE OVER 100 OF BRAD
PITT'S "MAKE IT RIGHT" HOUSES,
AND SOME 30 COMMUNITY GARDENS.
BUT ON MANY BLOCKS, THE ONLY
THING THAT'S RETURNED IN FULL
THING THAT'S RETURNED
IN FULL ARE THE WEEDS.
ARE THE WEEDS. MANY
ROADS ARE FILLED WITH
MANY ROADS ARE FILLED
WITH POTHOLES.
POTHOLES. ABANDONED
CARS AND TRASH STILL
ABANDONED CARS AND TRASH
STILL LITTER THE LANDSCAPE.
LITTER THE LANDSCAPE. THERE
IS A BRAND NEW $20 MILLION
THERE IS A BRAND NEW $20 MILLION
REC CENTER, A NEW FIRE HOUSE AND
A REBUILT K-12 PUBLIC CHARTER
A REBUILT K-12 PUBLIC
CHARTER SCHOOL.
SCHOOL. MAYOR MITCH
LANDRIEU, WHO,
MAYOR MITCH LANDRIEU, WHO,
EARLIER THIS MONTH HELD ONE OF
HIS MANY COMMUNITY FORUMS, THIS
ONE IN THE LOWER NINTH WARD,
SAYS MORE THAN $500 MILLION OF
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE MONEY HAS
BEEN SPENT ON THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> WHAT WE WANT TO DO IN THE
LOWER NINTH, AND IN EVERY
NEIGHBORHOOD, IS TO BUILD STRONG
FOUNDATIONS AND INSTITUTIONS
THAT CAN LIFT PEOPLE UP AND
THAT CAN LIFT PEOPLE UP
AND BEGIN TO CREATE GREAT
BEGIN TO CREATE GREAT
OPPORTUNITY IN GENERATION OF
OPPORTUNITY IN
GENERATION OF WEALTH.
WEALTH. IT TAKES A LOT
OF TIME AND A LOT
IT TAKES A LOT OF TIME
AND A LOT OF MONEY.
OF MONEY. THE LOWER
NINTH WARD IS WANTING
THE LOWER NINTH WARD IS WANTING
IN BOTH OF THOSE AREAS.
IN BOTH OF THOSE AREAS. >>
Brangham: WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
>> Brangham: WHAT DO YOU SAY TO
THE RESIDENTS WHO SAY IF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD HAD BEEN WHITER AND
WEALTHIER THEN IT WOULDN'T LOOK
WEALTHIER THEN IT WOULDN'T
LOOK THE WAY IT DOES TODAY?
THE WAY IT DOES TODAY? >>
THERE'S REALLY NO ANSWER TO
>> THERE'S REALLY
NO ANSWER TO THAT.
THAT. IF A NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT G HITOT
IF A NEIGHBORHOOD THAT G HITOT
WAS WEALTHIER AND HAD INSURANCE
AND HAD THE RESOURCES TO STAND
ITSELF BACK UP, IT WOULD BE
ITSELF BACK UP, IT
WOULD BE DOING BETTER.
DOING BETTER. THERE'S
NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
THERE'S NO QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
>> Brangham: THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE WHO BELIEVE THAT THE CITY
JUST DIDN'T HAVE THE POLITICAL
JUST DIDN'T HAVE THE
POLITICAL WILL.
WILL. >> THAT'S NOT ACCURATE.
>> THAT'S NOT ACCURATE. EVERY
PART OF THE CITY GOT FAIR
EVERY PART OF THE CITY
GOT FAIR TREATMENT.
TREATMENT. EVERY
PART OF THE CITY GOT
EVERY PART OF THE CITY GOT
INVESTMENTS THAT THEY DESERVED
INVESTMENTS THAT THEY
DESERVED AND NEEDED.
AND NEEDED. >> Brangham:
ONE THING THE CITY
>> Brangham: ONE THING THE CITY
IS DOING IS PROVIDING TAX BREAKS
TO DEVELOPERS WHO ARE WILLING TO
TO DEVELOPERS WHO ARE WILLING
TO BUILD IN THE LOWER NINTH.
BUILD IN THE LOWER NINTH. BUT
EVEN THOSE EXPOSED TENSIONS.
BUT EVEN THOSE EXPOSED TENSIONS.
>> THIS IS ANOTHER ASPECT OFFICS
THEY'RE MARKETING THEM FOR SALES
TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT FROM THIS
TO PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT
FROM THIS COMMUNITY.
COMMUNITY. WHITE
PEOPLE, PRIMARILY.
WHITE PEOPLE, PRIMARILY. >>
Brangham: KIM FORD IS A LOWER
>> Brangham: KIM FORD IS A
LOWER NINTH WARD RESIDENT AND
NINTH WARD RESIDENT AND
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER.
COMMUNITY ORGANIZER. SHE
SAYS THESE NEW DEVELOPMENT
SHE SAYS THESE NEW DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS WILL DRASTICALLY CHANGE
THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH, PRIOR TO
KATRINA, WAS COMPRISED MOSTLY OF
AFRICAN AMERICAN, WORKING CLASS
AFRICAN AMERICAN, WORKING
CLASS RESIDENTS.
RESIDENTS. SHE TOOK
ME TO A PARTICULARLY
SHE TOOK ME TO A PARTICULARLY
CONTENTIOUS SITE, THE OLD HOLY
CONTENTIOUS SITE, THE OLD
HOLY CROSS SCHOOL GROUNDS.
CROSS SCHOOL GROUNDS. SINCE
KATRINA, THEY'VE BEEN
SINCE KATRINA, THEY'VE BEEN BUT
THEY WERE RECENTLY PURCHASED
BUT THEY WERE RECENTLY PURCHASED
BY A NEW ORLEANS CONDO
BY A NEW ORLEANS
CONDO DEVELOPER.
DEVELOPER. >> TWO HIGH
RISE CONDO COMPLEXES
>> TWO HIGH RISE CONDO COMPLEXES
TO BE BUILT BETWEEN HERE AND THE
TO BE BUILT BETWEEN
HERE AND THE LEVEE.
LEVEE. TOWERING SIX
STORIES ABOVE THE
TOWERING SIX STORIES ABOVE THE
SINGLE ONE STORY HOMES IN THIS
SINGLE ONE STORY HOMES
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
NEIGHBORHOOD. >> Brangham:
ISN'T THAT A GOOD
>> Brangham: ISN'T
THAT A GOOD THING?
THING? DON'T YOU
NEED PEOPLE MOVING
DON'T YOU NEED PEOPLE MOVING
INTO THIS NEIGHBORHOOD?
INTO THIS NEIGHBORHOOD? >>
WE WANT PEOPLE INVESTED IN
>> WE WANT PEOPLE INVESTED
IN OUR COMMUNITY.
OUR COMMUNITY. SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES THAT
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT
HISTORICALLY HAVE BEEN IN THIS
HISTORICALLY HAVE BEEN
IN THIS COMMUNITY.
COMMUNITY. WE DON'T
WANT TO INCREASE THE
WE DON'T WANT TO INCREASE THE
TAXES IN OUR COMMUNITY SO WE
CAN'T AFFORD TO LIVE HERE
CAN'T AFFORD TO
LIVE HERE ANYMORE.
ANYMORE. YOU CAN SEE
HERE THE WATER LINE.
YOU CAN SEE HERE THE WATER LINE.
>> Brangham: JUST AROUND THE
COER, RNSTILL IN THE HOLY CROSS
SECTION OF THE LOWER NINTH WARD,
KIFF MAGOR AND HIS GIRLFRIEND
MARY AAROE ARE IN THE MIDST OF
RENOVATING A SMALL BRICK HOUSE
THEY BOUGHT THREE YEARS AGO.
ORIGINALLY FROM INDIANA AND
NORTH CAROLINA, THE TWO MET WHEN
THEY WERE VOLUNTEERS WITH COMMON
GROUND, A NON-PROFIT GROUP THAT
HAS REBUILT HOMES IN THE LOWER
HAS REBUILT HOMES
IN THE LOWER NINE.
NINE. THE TWO FELL
IN LOVE WITH EACH
THE TWO FELL IN LOVE WITH EACH
OTHER, AND THE NEIGHBORHOOD, AND
DECIDED TO MAKE IT THEIR HOME.
DECIDED TO MAKE IT THEIR
HOME. >> I MET PEOPLE IN THE
>> I MET PEOPLE IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
NEIGHBORHOOD. I
CONNECTED WITH THEM.
I CONNECTED WITH THEM. >>
THERE'S JUST A TON OF FOLKS
>> THERE'S JUST A TON OF FOLKS
THAT CAME DOWN AND RECOGNIZED
THIS AREA, AS PEOPLE WHO HAVE
LIVED HERE FOR GENERATIONS HAVE
LIVED HERE FOR GENERATIONS
HAVE ALWAYS KNOWN, THAT IT'S A
ALWAYS KNOWN, THAT IT'S
A BEAUTIFUL SPACE.
BEAUTIFUL SPACE. THERE
ARE STRONG PEOPLE HERE,
THERE ARE STRONG PEOPLE
HERE, SUPER RESILIENT.
SUPER RESILIENT. EVERYBODY
WHO'S HERE WANTS TO BE
EVERYBODY WHO'S HERE
WANTS TO BE HERE.
HERE. WE LOVE IT.
WE LOVE IT. >> Brangham:
THERE ARE SOME
>> Brangham: THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE WHO THINK THIS AREA
SHOULD REMAIN A HISTORICALLY
BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD.
BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD. >> I
CAN TOTALLY UNDERSTAND
>> I CAN TOTALLY UNDERSTAND
WHERE THOSE PEOPLE ARE COMING
WHERE THOSE PEOPLE
ARE COMING FROM.
FROM. I THINK IT'S A MATTER OF
I THINK IT'S A MATTER OF
RESPECTING WHAT WAS AND NOT TRY
TO RADICALLY CHANGE ANYTHING.
BUT IN ORDER FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD TO GET THE THINGS
IT NEEDS, WE NEED PEOPLE TO MOVE
IT NEEDS, WE NEED
PEOPLE TO MOVE IN.
IN. >> WE HAVE
SHRIMP AND GRILLED
>> WE HAVE SHRIMP AND
GRILLED CHICKEN.
CHICKEN. >> Brangham:
KEISHA HENRY
>> Brangham: KEISHA HENRY
CERTAINLY AGREES WITH THAT.
THREE YEARS AGO SHE AND SOME
FAMILY MEMBERS OPENED CAFE
DAUPHINE, THE ONLY UPSCALE
RESTAURANT IN THE LOWER NINTH
RESTAURANT IN THE
LOWER NINTH WARD.
WARD. THEY SERVE TRADITIONAL NEW
THEY SERVE TRADITIONAL
NEW ORLEANS FARE.
ORLEANS FARE. SHE SAYS
BUSINESS HAS BEEN UP
SHE SAYS BUSINESS HAS
BEEN UP AND DOWN.
AND DOWN. SHE HOPES
THEY'LL SOON SEE A
SHE HOPES THEY'LL
SOON SEE A PROFIT.
PROFIT. >> THE ULTIMATE
GOAL IS TO HAVE
>> THE ULTIMATE GOAL IS TO HAVE
PEOPLE COME DOWN HERE AND SEE
HOW NICE THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS.
AND THEY CAN ENJOY IT AND SAY:
AND THEY CAN ENJOY IT AND
SAY: I NEVER THOUGHT OF THIS
I NEVER THOUGHT OF THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD IN THIS LIGHT.
MAYBE I COULD MOVE HERE.
MAYBE I COULD MOVE HERE. >>
Brangham: SO YOU'D LIKE THIS
>> Brangham: SO YOU'D LIKE
THIS PLACE TO BE A MAGNET.
PLACE TO BE A MAGNET. NOT
ONLY TO BRING PEOPLE HERE TO
NOT ONLY TO BRING PEOPLE
HERE TO EAT, BUT TO LIVE.
EAT, BUT TO LIVE. >> YES.
>> YES. OUR NEIGHBORS
NEXT DOOR FROM
OUR NEIGHBORS NEXT DOOR FROM
CANADA, THEY SAID, "KEISHA, YOU
KNOW, YOU'RE ONE OF THE REASONS
KNOW, YOU'RE ONE OF THE
REASONS WE BOUGHT THE HOUSE."
WE BOUGHT THE HOUSE." >>
Brangham: BUT HENRY, WHO'S A
>> Brangham: BUT HENRY, WHO'S A
SINGLE MOM, AND WHO LIVES JUST
ACROSS THE STREET FROM HER
RESTAURANT, IS QUICK TO SAY WHAT
RESTAURANT, IS QUICK TO SAY
WHAT SHE DOESN'T LIKE TO HEAR.
SHE DOESN'T LIKE TO HEAR. >> I
DON'T MIND NEWCOMERS COMING
>> I DON'T MIND
NEWCOMERS COMING IN.
IN. BUT IT IS
OFFENSIVE TO PEOPLE
BUT IT IS OFFENSIVE TO PEOPLE
WHO HAVE LIVED HERE A LONG TIME
WHEN THEY SAY THEY ARE HERE TO
WHEN THEY SAY THEY ARE HERE
TO "SAVE" THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
"SAVE" THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
MY FAMILY HAS BEEN IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ALMOST 90 YEARS AND
IT IS OFFENSIVE TO HEAR, "OH I
BOUGHT BECAUSE I WANT TO SAVE
BOUGHT BECAUSE I WANT
TO SAVE YOU ALL."
YOU ALL." >> DEPENDING
ON YOUR BASELINE,
>> DEPENDING ON YOUR BASELINE,
YOU COULD DESCRIBE NEW ORLEANS
AS THE FASTEST SHRINKING OR THE
FASTEST GROWING CITY IN AMERICA.
>> Brangham: TULANE UNIVERSITY
GEOGRAPHER RICHARD CAMPANELLA
SAYS NEW ORLEANS IS ENJOYING A
"RENAISSANCE" OF SORTS IN LARGE
PART BECAUSE OF THE INFLUX OF
PART BECAUSE OF THE
INFLUX OF NEWCOMERS.
NEWCOMERS. CAMPANELLA
SAYS HE KNOWS THE
CAMPANELLA SAYS HE KNOWS THE
LOWER NINTH WARD IS STILL
LOWER NINTH WARD IS
STILL STRUGGLING.
STRUGGLING. AND WHILE
HE APPRECIATES THE
AND WHILE HE APPRECIATES THE
DEEP HISTORICAL TIES LONGTIME
RESIDENTS FEEL FOR THE PLACE, HE
HOPES THOSE FEELINGS DON'T BLOCK
NEW MIGRANTS FROM COMING.
NEW MIGRANTS FROM COMING. >>
IT FLIES AGAINST NOT ONLY
>> IT FLIES AGAINST NOT ONLY
MOST OF THE HUMAN STORY, BUT
MOST OF THE NEW ORLEANS STORY.
NEWCOMERS HAVE ARRIVED HERE IN
VARIOUS WAVES FOR 300 YEARS.
SO TO ARTIFICIALLY DRAW A LINE
IN THE CHRONOLOGY OF THE CITY
AND DECLARE EVERYONE BEFORE THAT
LINE TO BE THE TRUE DENIZENS OR
RESIDENTS AND EVERYONE AFTER
THAT LINE TO BE AN ARTIFICIAL
INTRUSION IS TO IGNORE ALL OF
INTRUSION IS TO IGNORE
ALL OF HISTORY.
HISTORY. >> Brangham:
SOME RESIDENTS,
>> Brangham: SOME RESIDENTS,
LIKE REVEREND WILLIE CALHOUN,
SAY THEY KNOW CHANGE IS
INEVITABLE, BUT THEY DON'T THINK
ENOUGH WAS DONE TO BRING THE
ORIGINAL RESIDENTS OF THE LOWER
ORIGINAL RESIDENTS OF THE
LOWER NINTH WARD BACK.
NINTH WARD BACK. >> THE
DESIGN WAS NEVER TO BRING
>> THE DESIGN WAS NEVER TO BRING
THIS COMMUNITY BACK ALL THE WAY.
THE POLITICAL WILL TO MAKE SURE
THIS COMMUNITY THRIVES AND
PROSPERS WAS NOT THERE.
PROSPERS WAS NOT
THERE. IS NOT THERE.
IS NOT THERE. >>
Brangham: GROCER BURNELL
>> Brangham: GROCER BURNELL
COTLON SAYS PEOPLE LIKE HIM,
PEOPLE WHO, DESPITE THE
CHALLENGES, HAVE MADE THIS THEIR
HOME, IT'S UP TO THEM TO BUD AIL
HOME, IT'S UP TO THEM TO
BUD AIL NEW COMMUNITY.
NEW COMMUNITY. >> NEW
ORLEANS IS CHANGING AND
>> NEW ORLEANS IS CHANGING AND
YOU HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
YOU HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD. I
KNOW SOME PEOPLE WANT TO KEEP
I KNOW SOME PEOPLE WANT TO
KEEP THE SAME OLD NEW ORLEANS.
THE SAME OLD NEW ORLEANS.
BUT KATRINA CHANGED THAT.
BUT KATRINA CHANGED THAT. YOU
HAVE TO EMBRACE THE CHANGE.
YOU HAVE TO EMBRACE THE CHANGE.
YOU HAVE TO MOVE FORWARD.
YOU CAN'T STAY IN THE PAST.
>> Brangham: FROM THE LOWER
NINTH WARD OF NEW ORLEANS, I'M
WILLIAM BRANGHAM FOR THE PBS
WILLIAM BRANGHAM FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
NEWSHOUR. >> Woodruff:
TUNE IN AGAIN
>> Woodruff: TUNE IN AGAIN
TOMORROW NIGHT: AS A NEW STATE
OF THE ART HOSPITAL OPENS, WE
LOOK AT THE NEW OPPORTUNITIES
AND THE CHALLENGES FACING HEALTH
AND THE CHALLENGES FACING
HEALTH CARE IN NEW ORLEANS.
CARE IN NEW ORLEANS. YOU
CAN FOLLOW OUR SERIES,
YOU CAN FOLLOW OUR SERIES,
"KATRINA TEN YEARS LATER,"
ONLINE AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: EUROPEAN UNION
OFFICIALS SAY THAT THE NUMBER OF
REFUGEES AND MIGRANTS FLEEING
TO EUROPE REACHED A RECORD HIGH
OF MORE THAN 107,000 LAST MONTH.
THE SGE URHAS REACHED HUNGARY'S
SOUTHERN BORDER, WHERE MORE THAN
2,000 PEOPLE, MOST FROM SYRIA,
CROSSED INTO THE COUNTRY
YESTERDAY AND TODAY, EVEN AS THE
GOVERNMENERECT TED A BORDER
FENCE TO STOP THE FLOW.
THEY ARE COMING BY BOAT, BY
FOOT, AND EVEN BY SPECIAL
TRAINS, IN AN EFFORT TO REACH
TRAINS, IN AN EFFORT TO
REACH NORTHERN EUROPE.
NORTHERN EUROPE. GERMANY
ALONE IS EXPECTING AS
GERMANY ALONE IS EXPECTING AS
MANY AS 750,000 THOUSAND ASYLUM
MANY AS 750,000 THOUSAND
ASYLUM SEEKERS THIS YEAR.
SEEKERS THIS YEAR. JOINING
ME NOW TO DISCUSS THE
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS THE
DILEMMA FACING THOSE FLEEING AND
THE COUNTRIES THEY ARE ESCAPING
TO IS FORMER BRITISH FOREIGN
SECRETARY DAVID MILLIBAND, NOW
PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF THE
INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US,
THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US, MR. MILIBAND.
MR. MILIBAND. HOW DID
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES GET
HOW DID EUROPEAN COUNTRIES GET
SO OVERWHELMED SO QUICKLY?
SO OVERWHELMED SO
QUICKLY? >> GOOD EVENING.
>> GOOD EVENING. IT'S
GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
IT'S GOOD TO BE WITH YOU. I
THINK THAT THE EUROPEAN CRISIS
I THINK THAT THE EUROPEAN
CRISIS IS A REFUGEE CRISIS,
IS A REFUGEE CRISIS,
FUNDAMENTALLY.
FUNDAMENTALLY. OVER 90%
OF THE PEOPLE WHO'VE
OVER 90% OF THE PEOPLE WHO'VE
ARRIVED IN GREECE WHICH IS IN
THE FRONT LINE OF THIS CRISIS
HAVE COME FROM SYRIA AND FROM
HAVE COME FROM SYRIA
AND FROM AFGHANISTAN.
AFGHANISTAN. THE SIMPLE
FACT IS THAT, WHEN
THE SIMPLE FACT IS THAT, WHEN
CIVIL WARS BECOME LONG-TERM
CRISES IN COUNTRIES LIKE SYRIA
AND AFGHANISTAN, PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO FLEE FOR THEIR LIVES,
WHICH IS THE DEFINITION OF A
WHICH IS THE DEFINITION
OF A REFUGEE.
REFUGEE. I'M AFRAID
EUROPE'S ATTENTION
I'M AFRAID EUROPE'S ATTENTION
HAS BEEN ON THE EURO CRISIS AND
ALSO ON THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE
WITH RUSSIA, AND THIS REFUGEE
CRISIS HAS CREPT UP ON THEM.
JUST THIS MONTH, 50,000 PEOPLE
HAVE ARRIVED IN GREECE, AND
WE'VE GOT TEAMS FROM THE
NATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE WHERE
2,000 PEOPLE ARE ARRIVING EVERY
2,000 PEOPLE ARE ARRIVING
EVERY DAY AND, FRANKLY, THE
DAY AND, FRANKLY, THE
AUTHORITIES ARE BEING
OVERWHELMED AND THEY NEED HELP
FROM HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS.
>> Ifill: CAN WE TALK
DEFINITIONS FOR A MOMENT?
YOU'RE USING THE TERM REFUGEE,
SOME CALL THEM MIGRANTS AND SOME
SOME CALL THEM MIGRANTS AND
SOME TERM THEM ASYLUM SEEKERS.
TERM THEM ASYLUM SEEKERS.
IS THAT AN IMPORTANT
DISTINCTION?
DISTINCTION? >>
VERY IMPORTANT IN.
>> VERY IMPORTANT IN. YOUR
INTRODUCTION AT THE HEAD OF
YOUR INTRODUCTION AT THE HEAD
OF THE SHOW YOU USE THE PHRASE
THE SHOW YOU USE THE PHRASE
OTHER EUROPEAN LEADERS USE WHICH
OTHER EUROPEAN LEADERS USE
WHICH IS A MIGRANT CRISIS.
IS A MIGRANT CRISIS. I
WOULD DISPUTE THAT.
I WOULD DISPUTE THAT. THE
REFUGEE DEFINED BY THE
THE REFUGEE DEFINED BY THE
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTIONS
ESTABLISHED AFTER THE SECOND
WORLD WAR IS SOMEONE WHO IS
FLEEING PERSECUTION, THEY HAVE A
FLEEING PERSECUTION, THEY
HAVE A "WELL-FOUNDED FEAR OF
"WELL-FOUNDED FEAR
OF PERSECUTION."
PERSECUTION." A MIGRANT
IS SOMEONE WHO IS
A MIGRANT IS SOMEONE WHO IS
SEEKING A BETTER LIFE BASICALLY
FOR ECONOMIC REASONS.
FOR ECONOMIC REASONS. I THINK
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO
I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
TO CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THE
CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THE
DISTINCTION BETWEEN THE TWO.
THE ASYLUM SEEKER YOU'RE
REFERRING TO IS FOR A REFUGEE
APPLYING FOR ASYLUM IN A COUNTRY
APPLYING FOR ASYLUM IN A
COUNTRY IN WHICH THEY LAND.
IN WHICH THEY LAND. SO THE
FUNDAMENTAL DISTINCTION
SO THE FUNDAMENTAL DISTINCTION
IS BETWEEN REFUGEES, ON THE ONE
IS BETWEEN REFUGEES, ON THE
ONE HAND, WHO ARE FLEEING
HAND, WHO ARE FLEEING
PERSECUTION AND HAVE SPECIFIC
RIGHTS UNDER INTERNATIONAL LAW
AND THOSE WHO ARE ECONOMIC
MIGRANTS WHO ARE SEEKING A
MIGRANTS WHO ARE
SEEKING A BETTER LIFE.
BETTER LIFE. >> Ifill:
CAN WE TALK ABILITY
>> Ifill: CAN WE TALK ABILITY
HOW THE EUROPEAN COUNTRIES
HOW THE EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES HANDLED THIS?
HANDLED THIS? IN HUNGARY,
A FENCE WENT UP.
IN HUNGARY, A FENCE WENT
UP. IT DIDN'T END WELL.
IT DIDN'T END WELL. HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS TRYING TO
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS TRYING TO
GET ACROSS, MANY COMING FROM
GET ACROSS, MANY
COMING FROM SYRIA.
SYRIA. NOW WE SAW
TODAY GERMANY, ON THE
NOW WE SAW TODAY GERMANY, ON THE
OTHER HAND, IS SAYING SYRIAN
ASYLUM SEEKERS CAN COME INTO THE
ASYLUM SEEKERS CAN
COME INTO THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. HOW ARE
EUROPEAN NATIONS
HOW ARE EUROPEAN NATIONS
HANDLING THIS NOT ALL THE SAME
HANDLING THIS NOT
ALL THE SAME WAY?
WAY? >> LET ME PUT
THIS INTO PROPER
>> LET ME PUT THIS
INTO PROPER CONTEXT.
CONTEXT. LAST YEAR,
THERE WERE ABOUT
LAST YEAR, THERE WERE ABOUT
20 MILLION REFUGEES IN THE
20 MILLION REFUGEES
IN THE WORLD.
WORLD. THE UNITED
STATES, SO FAR FROM
THE UNITED STATES, SO FAR FROM
THE SYRIA CONFLICT, HAS TAKEN
THE SYRIA CONFLICT, HAS
TAKEN LESS THAN 1,000.
LESS THAN 1,000. IN
EUROPE, WE'VE GOT, AS YOU
IN EUROPE, WE'VE GOT, AS YOU
SAID IN YOUR INTRODUCTION,
GERMAN OFFICIALS EXPECTING
750,000 PEOPLE TO ARRIVE.
750,000 PEOPLE TO ARRIVE. AND
WE KNOW FROM THI FROM THE SS
AND WE KNOW FROM THI FROM THE SS
THAT HAVE BEEN DONE THAT 300,000
PEOPLE CROSSED THE MEDITERRANEAN
INTO EUROPE JUST THIS YEAR,
THAT'S PRIMARILY FROM SYRIA AND
THAT'S PRIMARILY FROM SYRIA
AND FROM AFGHANISTAN.
FROM AFGHANISTAN. SO THAT
GIVES YOU A BIT OF A
SO THAT GIVES YOU A BIT OF
A SENSE OF THE RELATIVE
SENSE OF THE RELATIVE
PROPORTIONS HERE.
PROPORTIONS HERE. THE
EUROPEAN UNION, IT IS AN
THE EUROPEAN UNION, IT IS AN
AGREEMENT OF 28 NATION STATES
AGREEMENT OF 28 NATION
STATES THAT CONSTITUTE ABOUT
THAT CONSTITUTE ABOUT 500
MILLION PEOPLE, SO THAT
500 MILLION PEOPLE, SO THAT
GIVES YOU A SENSE THAT, ALTHOUGH
THIS HAS BECOME A POLITICAL
CRISIS, IT'S NOT YET AN ECONOMIC
OR SOCIAL CRISIS THAT OUTSTRIPS
THE WEALTH OR HISTORY AND
TRADITIONS OF THE EUROPEAN
TRADITIONS OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION.
UNION. I THINK IT'S
VERY SIGNIFICANT
I THINK IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT
THAT TWO LEADING GERMAN
POLITICIANS TODAY, THE VICE
CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY AND THE
CHANCELLOR OF GERMANY AND
THE FOREIGN MINISTER, THEY
FOREIGN MINISTER, THEY
FUNDAMENTALLY CONDEMNED THE
EUROPEAN RESPONSE AS BEING, IN
THEIR WORDS "INADEQUATE" AND SET
THEIR WORDS "INADEQUATE" AND
SET OUT A PLAN FOR INCREASED
OUT A PLAN FOR INCREASED
EUROPEAN DIPLOMATIC ACTIVITY
UPSTREAM IN THINGS LIKE THE
SYRIAN CONFLICT WHICH SUFFERED
FROM LACK OF DIPLOMATIC
ATTENTION BUT ALSO A MORE
COORDINATED EUROPEAN ACTION TO
SHARE OUT THE EUROPEAN BURDEN
ACROSS THE 28 STATES OF THE
EUROPEAN UNION WHICH IS MORE
EUROPEAN UNION WHICH
IS MORE NOTED AS WELL.
NOTED AS WELL. >>
Ifill: SHOULD BRITAIN
>> Ifill: SHOULD BRITAIN FOLLOW
SUIT AND DO WHAT GERMANY
FOLLOW SUIT AND DO
WHAT GERMANY HAS DONE?
HAS DONE? >> BRITAIN
SHOULD CERTAINLY BE A
>> BRITAIN SHOULD CERTAINLY BE A
PART OF THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE
PART OF THE DISTRIBUTION
OF THE REFUGEE BURNED.
REFUGEE BURNED. BRITAIN
ALONG WITH OTHER
BRITAIN ALONG WITH OTHER
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES HAS AN
EXTRAORDINARY AND RICH TRADITION
OF BEING OPEN TO PEOPLE FROM
AROUND THE WORLD WHO ARE FLEEING
AROUND THE WORLD WHO ARE
FLEEING PERSECUTION.
PERSECUTION. MY OWN
FAMILY BENEFITED FROM
MY OWN FAMILY BENEFITED FROM
THAT DURING THE 20th CENTURY,
AND I THINK IT'S VERY IMPORTANT
THAT, WHEN ONE LOOKS AT THE
SCENES IN KALAY, A DISCUSSION IN
SCENES IN KALAY, A DISCUSSION
IN BRITAIN AND FRANCE OVER
BRITAIN AND FRANCE OVER
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE CAMPED THERE
AND GOING TO EXTRAORDINARY
MEASURES TO --
MEASURES TO -- >>
Ifill: TRYING TO GET
>> Ifill: TRYING TO GET THROUGH
THE TUNNEL, WHICH WE'VE
THROUGH THE TUNNEL, WHICH
WE'VE REPORTED OFTEN, YEAH.
REPORTED OFTEN, YEAH. >>
EXACTLY, RIGHT GET THROUGH
>> EXACTLY, RIGHT GET THROUGH
THE TUNNEL IN THE CONTEXT YOU
HAVE 300,000 PEOPLE CROSSING THE
IS TO GET A SENSE OF THE SHOOT
HORROR CONFRONTING THE 80
WORKERS FROM THE NATIONAL RESCUE
WORKERS FROM THE NATIONAL
RESCUE COMMITTEE AND ELSEWHERE.
COMMITTEE AND ELSEWHERE. WE
HAVE JUST TODAY HELPED SEVEN
WE HAVE JUST TODAY HELPED SEVEN
PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN SWIMMING
FOR SEVEN HOURS BECAUSE THEIR
BOAT SANK IN THE MEDITERRANEAN
AS THEY TRIED TO CROSS INTO
AS THEY TRIED TO
CROSS INTO GREECE.
GREECE. FIVE OF THE
PEOPLE WHO LEFT THE
FIVE OF THE PEOPLE WHO LEFT THE
BOAT WITH THEM DIED ON THE WAY.
THE DEGREE OF TRAUMA AND HORROR
THAT IS OCCURRING ON YOUR SHORES
IS SOMETHING THAT I THINK
GENERATIONS OF EUROPEANS FELT
AND HOPED THEY PUT BEHIND THEM.
THIS WE HAVE GEE CRISIS IS
SOMETHING THAT OBVIOUSLY EUROPE
NEEDS TO CONTEND WITH BUT NEEDS
A WIDE INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE
GIVEN AFGHANISTAN, SOMALIA AND
SYRIA AS THE PRIME STATES FROM
WHICH PEOPLE ARE FLEEING.
>> Ifill: CAN WE TALK ABOUT
WHAT THE EUROPEAN UNION'S
RESPONSIBLE SHOULD BE WHEN YOU
RESPONSIBLE SHOULD BE WHEN
YOU TALK ABOUT THE COUNTRIES
TALK ABOUT THE COUNTRIES
STANDING SHOULDER TO SHOULDER?
IS IT SETTLEMENT, SANCTIONING,
OR WHAT SHOULD BE THE FIRST
STEPS AND HOW DO YOU GET THEM
AGREE TO DO THE SAME THING.
AGREE TO DO THE SAME THING. >>
IS THIS TWO THINGS ARE VITAL.
>> IS THIS TWO THINGS ARE VITAL.
ONE IS ACTION UPSTREAM WHICH IS
PARTLY THE DIPLOMATIC EFFORT TO
PARTLY THE DIPLOMATIC EFFORT
TO MAKE SURE PIECE CAPING IN
MAKE SURE PIECE CAPING
IN SOMALIA IS DONE.
SOMALIA IS DONE. BUT
UPSTREAM THE MAKE STATES TO
BUT UPSTREAM THE MAKE STATES TO
SYRIA GET PROPER HUMANITARIAN
HELP THERE SO THERE'S PROPER
DIGNITY AND SUPPORT FOR REFUGEES
IN THOSE COUNTRIES, DITTO
REFUGEES IN AFRICA FLEEING FROM
THE CONFLICT IN TANZANIA AND
THE CONFLICT IN
TANZANIA AND ETHIOPIA.
ETHIOPIA. IF YOU DON'T
TEND THEM UPSTREAM,
IF YOU DON'T TEND THEM UPSTREAM,
THE FLOW OVERWHELMS DOWNSTREAM.
THE SECOND THING THE EUROPEAN
UNION NEEDS TO DO IS PROPERLY
SHARE THE BURDEN AND ASSESS WHO
ARE THE REFUGEES AS OPPOSED TO
ARE THE REFUGEES AS OPPOSED
TO THE ECONOMIC MIGRANTS AND
THE ECONOMIC MIGRANTS AND
PROPERLY ENSURE THEY UPHOLD THE
PROPERLY ENSURE THEY UPHOLD
THE MOST BASIC STANDARDS OF
MOST BASIC STANDARDS OF
HUMETYENED 5 DIGNITY FOR THOSE
FLEEING FOR THEIR LIVES.
FLEEING FOR THEIR LIVES. >>
Ifill: DID THE COUNTRIES
>> Ifill: DID THE COUNTRIES THE
REFUGEES ARE TRAVELING TO TO
THE REFUGEES ARE TRAVELING TO TO
GET TO THEIR ULTIMATE GOAL, DO
THEY HAVE THE RESOURCES TO HELP
PROVIDE THE RESETTLEMENT, HELP,
PROVIDE THE RESETTLEMENT,
HELP, ABSORB THE FLOW?
ABSORB THE FLOW? >> IT'S
A REALLY GOOD POINT, AND
>> IT'S A REALLY GOOD POINT,
AND THE SHORT ANSWER IS NO.
THE SHORT ANSWER IS NO. I WAS
RECENTLY VISITING ONE OF
I WAS RECENTLY VISITING ONE OF
THE TRANSIT STATES IN CENTRAL
AFRICA THROUGH WHICH PEOPLE PASS
FROM NIGERIA AND ELSEWHERE TO
GET TO THE NORTH AFRICAN COAST
GET TO THE NORTH AFRICAN
COAST AND TRAVEL TO EUROPE.
AND TRAVEL TO EUROPE. THE
NEIGHBORING STATES FOR THE
THE NEIGHBORING STATES FOR THE
GREAT CONFLICTS OF THE WORLD,
THE NEIGHBORING STATES OF SYRIA
THE NEIGHBORING STATES OF
SOMALIA, THE NEIGHBORING STATES
OF NIGERIA AND AFGHANISTAN, NONE
OF THEM ARE GETTING THE KIND OF
HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION AND
HELP THAT CAN HELP INSULATE THEM
HELP THAT CAN HELP INSULATE
THEM FROM THE PROBLEMS.
FROM THE PROBLEMS. U.N.
APPEALS TO TAKE CASH, FOR
U.N. APPEALS TO TAKE
CASH, FOR EXAMPLE.
EXAMPLE. U.N. APPEALS
ARE GETTING 35% TO
U.N. APPEALS ARE GETTING
35% TO 40% FUNDING.
40% FUNDING. THERE IS
A SIMPLE REASON FOR
THERE IS A SIMPLE
REASON FOR THAT.
THAT. THE WORLD
HAS NEVER KNOWN A
THE WORLD HAS NEVER KNOWN A
SITUATION WHERE THERE ARE
SITUATION WHERE THERE ARE 20
MILLION REFUGEES, 40 MILLION
20 MILLION REFUGEES, 40 MILLION
INTERNALLY DISPLACED PEOPLE FROM
CIVIL WARS THAT SEEM TO HAVE NO
END, AND IT'S HIGH TIME THAT THE
SCALE OF DILLS ORDER THAT IS
CONVULSING SIGNIFICANT PARTS TO
HAVE THE WORLD GETS NOT JUST
POLITICAL AND DIPLOMATIC
ATTENTION BUT A MUCH GREATER
HUMANITARIAN EFFORT BECAUSE,
FRANKLY, THERE IS A MORAL
IMPERATIVE TO SAVE PEOPLE
FLEEING FROM THEIR LIVES AND AN
FLEEING FROM THEIR LIVES AND
AN INSTRUMENTAL ONE AS.
INSTRUMENTAL ONE AS. WE THESE
PROBLEMS WASH UP ON OUR
WE THESE PROBLEMS WASH UP ON OUR
SHORES IF WE DON'T DEAL WITH
SHORES IF WE DON'T DEAL
WITH THEM AT ROOT.
THEM AT ROOT. >>
Ifill: DAVID MILIBAND,
>> Ifill: DAVID MILIBAND,
PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. OF
INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH. >>
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, THE VOLATILE ISSUE OF
IMMIGRATION CONTINUES TO SPARK
DEBATE IN THE 2016 PRESIDENTIAL
DEBATE IN THE 2016
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. THE LATEST
ROUND CENTERS ON
THE LATEST ROUND CENTERS ON
BABIES BORN IN THE U.S. TO
PARENTS WHO ARE NOT AMERICAN
PARENTS WHO ARE NOT
AMERICAN CITIZENS.
CITIZENS. >> I'LL
USE THE WORD ANCHOR
>> I'LL USE THE
WORD ANCHOR BABY.
BABY. EXCUSE ME,
I'LL USE THE WORD
EXCUSE ME, I'LL USE
THE WORD ANCHOR BABY.
ANCHOR BABY. >>
Woodruff: DONALD TRUMP
>> Woodruff: DONALD TRUMP
STARTED THIS LATEST FUROR OVER A
TERM THAT IMMIGRATION ADVOCATES
TERM THAT IMMIGRATION
ADVOCATES VIEW AS DEROGATORY.
VIEW AS DEROGATORY. HE
COMPLAINED OF CHILDREN BORN
HE COMPLAINED OF CHILDREN BORN
IN THE U.S., WHOMMED IIATELY
GAIN AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP AND
BECOME THE MEANS FOR ENTIRE
FAMILIES, HERE ILLEGALLY, TO
FAMILIES, HERE
ILLEGALLY, TO STAY.
STAY. FELLOW REPUBLICAN JEB BUSH
FELLOW REPUBLICAN JEB
BUSH WEIGHED IN AS WELL.
WEIGHED IN AS WELL. >>
THERE OUGHT TO BE GREATER
>> THERE OUGHT TO BE
GREATER ENFORCEMENT.
ENFORCEMENT. THAT'S THE
LEGITIMATE SIDE OF
THAT'S THE LEGITIMATE
SIDE OF THIS.
THIS. GREATER
ENFORCEMENT SO THAT YOU
GREATER ENFORCEMENT SO THAT YOU
DON'T HAVE THESE ANCHOR BABIES
AS THEY'RE DESCRIBED COMING INTO
AS THEY'RE DESCRIBED
COMING INTO THE COUNTRY.
THE COUNTRY. >> Woodruff:
BY YESTERDAY, AN
>> Woodruff: BY YESTERDAY, AN
EXASPERATED BUSH WAS TRYING TO
DOUSE CRITICISM FOR USING THE
DOUSE CRITICISM FOR
USING THE TERM.
TERM. >> YOU GIVE ME
THE NAME AND I'LL
>> YOU GIVE ME THE
NAME AND I'LL USE IT.
USE IT. HOW ABOUT THAT?
HOW ABOUT THAT? >>
Woodruff: MOREOVER, THE
>> Woodruff: MOREOVER, THE
FORMER FLORIDA GOVERNOR INSISTED
THAT, UNLIKE TRUMP, HE WASN'T
TALKING ABOUT LATINOS AT ALL.
>> WHAT I WAS TALKING ABOUT WAS
A SPECIFIC CASE OF FRAUD BEING
COMMITTED WHERE THERE ARE
COMMITTED WHERE THERE
ARE ORGANIZED EFFORTS.
ORGANIZED EFFORTS. FRANKLY
IT IS MORE RELATED TO
FRANKLY IT IS MORE RELATED TO
ASIAN PEOPLE, COMING INTO OUR
COUNTRY, HAVING CHILDREN IN THAT
COUNTRY, HAVING CHILDREN
IN THAT ORGANIZED EFFORT.
ORGANIZED EFFORT. >> Woodruff:
BUSH CAMPAIGN AIDES
>> Woodruff: BUSH CAMPAIGN AIDES
CALLED THE PRACTICE "BIRTH
TOURISM," WITH FOREIGNERS
ARRIVING LEGALLY JUST IN TIME TO
ARRIVING LEGALLY JUST IN
TIME TO HAVE A CHILD.
HAVE A CHILD. THE
NON-PARTISAN MIGRATION
THE NON-PARTISAN MIGRATION
POLICY INSTITUTE ESTIMATES SOME
230,000 CHILDREN ARE BORN IN THE
U.S. EACH YEAR WITH AT LEAST ONE
U.S. EACH YEAR WITH AT LEAST
ONE PARENT HERE ILLEGALLY.
PARENT HERE ILLEGALLY. WHILE
THE CENTER FOR IMMIGRATION
WHILE THE CENTER FOR IMMIGRATION
STUDIES, WHICH FAVORS STRICTER
RULES, ESTIMATES 36,000 BIRTHS A
YEAR BY WOMEN WHO COME TO THE
U.S. TO HAVE A BABY, THEN LEAVE
U.S. TO HAVE A BABY, THEN
LEAVE TO GO BACK HOME.
TO GO BACK HOME. OTHERS
SAY THAT NUMBER IS
OTHERS SAY THAT
NUMBER IS SMALLER.
SMALLER. MEANWHILE,
THE ISSUE HAS NOW
MEANWHILE, THE ISSUE HAS NOW
BECOME PART OF THE BROADER
IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
IMMIGRATION DEBATE. TO HELP
EXPLAIN THE BACKGROUND
TO HELP EXPLAIN THE BACKGROUND
ON THIS, I'M JOINED BY DORIS
MEISSNER, SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
MIGRATION POLICY INSITITUTE, AND
A FORMER TOP OFFICIAL AT THE
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION
SERVICE UNDER PRESIDENT REAGAN,
AND ITS COMMISSIONER UNDER
AND ITS COMMISSIONER
UNDER PRESIDENT CLINTON.
PRESIDENT CLINTON. AND,
SUSAN BERFIELD, A REPORTER
AND, SUSAN BERFIELD, A REPORTER
WITH "BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK."
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH
TO THE PROGRAM.
PROGRAM. I THINK
IT HELPS TO HAVE
I THINK IT HELPS TO HAVE
EVERYBODY FIRST UNDERSTAND THAT
WE APPEAR TO BE TALKING ABOUT
TWO DIFFERENT PRACTICES HERE.
FIRST, CHILDREN BORN IN THE U.S.
TO PARENTS, ONE OF WHOM -- AT
TO PARENTS, ONE OF WHOM --
AT LEAST ONE OF WHOM IS HERE
LEAST ONE OF WHOM
IS HERE ILLEGALLY.
ILLEGALLY. DORIS
MEISSNER, WHAT ARE THE
DORIS MEISSNER, WHAT ARE THE
TYPICAL CIRCUMSTANCES THERE?
TYPICAL CIRCUMSTANCES THERE? >>
THE TYPICAL CIRCUMSTANCES ARE
>> THE TYPICAL CIRCUMSTANCES ARE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE COME TO THE
UNITED STATES WITHOUT LEGAL
STATUS, GENERALLY ACROSS THE
SOUTHWEST BORDER WITH MEXICO.
THEY'RE COMING TO THE U.S.
BECAUSE THERE ARE JOBS HERE.
MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN HERE FOR
MOST OF THEM HAVE BEEN
HERE FOR MANY YEARS.
MANY YEARS. A LARGE SHARE
OF THAT 11 MILLION
A LARGE SHARE OF THAT 11 MILLION
THAT ARE IN AN UNAUTHORIZED
STATUS IN THE UNITED STATES HAVE
BEEN IN THE COUNTRY FOR MANY
BEEN IN THE COUNTRY
FOR MANY YEARS.
YEARS. THEY'RE YOUNGER WORKERS.
THEY'RE YOUNGER WORKERS. THEY
FORM FAMILIES IN THE UNITED
THEY FORM FAMILIES IN THE UNITED
STATES AND, BECAUSE THEY ARE
UNAUTHORIZED THEMSELVES, THEY
ARE NOT UNITED STATES CITIZENS
BUT THEIR CHILDREN BORN HERE ARE
U.S. CITIZENS AND THEY ALSO HAVE
CHILDREN IN THE FAMILY WHO ARE
CHILDREN IN THE FAMILY WHO
ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS.
NOT U.S. CITIZENS. >>
Woodruff: AND YOU SAY
>> Woodruff: AND YOU SAY
THEY'RE TYPICALLY FROM MEXICO.
>> MEXICO AND CENTRAL MARK, THE
LARGEST SHARE OF TUN AUTHORIZED
POPULATION HAS BEEN MEXICO.
THAT IS LESS THE PATTERN.
MORE TYPICALLY, THE FACT IS
CENTRAL AMERICANS, BUT WE'RE
BASICALLY TALKINGT ABOUT A LATIN
BASICALLY TALKINGT ABOUT A
LATIN AMERICAN POPULATION.
AMERICAN POPULATION. >>
Woodruff: DORIS MEISSNER,
>> Woodruff: DORIS MEISSNER,
THESE ARE PARENTS OF FAMILIES
WHO HOPE OR WANT TO STAY IN THE
WHO HOPE OR WANT TO STAY
IN THE UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES. IS THAT RIGHT?
IS THAT RIGHT? >> WELL,
THEY TYPICALLY COME
>> WELL, THEY TYPICALLY
COME HERE TO WORK.
HERE TO WORK. MANY THINK
THAT THEY EARN ENOUGH
MANY THINK THAT THEY EARN ENOUGH
MONEY TO BE ABLE TO GO BACK TO
THEIR COUNTRY AT SOME POINT.
THAT GENERALLY IS NOT THE CASE,
BECAUSE THEY ARE MOST TYPICALLY
BECAUSE THEY ARE MOST
TYPICALLY IN LOWER-WAGE JOBS.
IN LOWER-WAGE JOBS. THEY'RE
IN THE SERVICE SECTOR,
THEY'RE IN THE SERVICE SECTOR,
IN CONSTRUCTION, THEY'RE IN
IN CONSTRUCTION,
THEY'RE IN TOURISM.
TOURISM. >> Woodruff:
THE REPORTING
>> Woodruff: THE REPORTING
"BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK," SUSAN
BERFIELD, TELL US ABOUT WHO ARE
BERFIELD, TELL US ABOUT
WHO ARE THESE WOMEN.
THESE WOMEN. >> THE
WOMEN I LOOKED AT WERE
>> THE WOMEN I LOOKED
AT WERE ALL FROM CHINA.
ALL FROM CHINA.
THEY WERE WELL OFF.
THEY WERE WELL OFF. THEY
CAME HERE WITH TOURIST
THEY CAME HERE WITH TOURIST
VISAS, AND ALSO WITH THE INTENT
VISAS, AND ALSO WITH THE
INTENT TO GIVE BIRTH.
TO GIVE BIRTH. ONCE THEY
DID GIVE BIRTH, THEY
ONCE THEY DID GIVE BIRTH, THEY
GOT PASSPORTS FOR THEIR KIDS AND
GOT PASSPORTS FOR THEIR KIDS
AND THEN RETURNED TO CHINA.
THEN RETURNED TO CHINA. SO
THEY, YOU KNOW, MAY AT ONE
SO THEY, YOU KNOW, MAY AT ONE
POINT MAY WANT TO SEND THEIR
KIDS BACK HERE FOR EDUCATION,
BUT THEIR MAIN PURPOSE IS TO GET
A U.S. PASSPORT AND ALL THE
FREEDOM THAT AFFORDS AROUND THE
FREEDOM THAT AFFORDS
AROUND THE WORLD.
WORLD. >> Woodruff: THIS IS A
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A
PRACTICE THAT'S BEEN CALLED
PRACTICE THAT'S BEEN
CALLED MATERNITY TOURISM.
MATERNITY TOURISM. THERE
ARE ORGANIZED GROUPS
THERE ARE ORGANIZED GROUPS
SPONSORING THIS THAT THESE WOMEN
PAY IN ORDER TO HAVE THIS
PAY IN ORDER TO
HAVE THIS HAPPEN.
HAPPEN. >> THERE
IS AN UNDERGROUND
>> THERE IS AN
UNDERGROUND ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. IT'S LARGELY BASED IN
IT'S LARGELY BASED IN
CALIFORNIA, WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT CHINESE FAMILIES.
ABOUT CHINESE FAMILIES. THOUGH
IN CHINA, IT'S OUT IN THE
THOUGH IN CHINA, IT'S
OUT IN THE OPEN.
OPEN. THESE SERVICES
ADVERTISE, THEY
THESE SERVICES ADVERTISE, THEY
HOLD ORIENTATION MEETINGS, THERE
ARE BLOGS AND LOTS OF SOCIAL
MEDIA ABOUT THE PHENOMENON,
ABOUT THE PRACTICE, RATING THE
ABOUT THE PRACTICE,
RATING THE SERVICES.
SERVICES. THEY
PROVIDE WOMEN WITH
THEY PROVIDE WOMEN WITH
APARTMENTS IN THE U.S. AND
RECOMMEND DOCTORS WHERE THEY CAN
RECOMMEND DOCTORS WHERE THEY
CAN GO TO HOSPITALS WHERE THEY
GO TO HOSPITALS WHERE THEY
SHOULD GIVE BIRTH AND, YOU KNOW,
WHERE THIS BECOMES, I GUESS,
CONTINUE VERSE ORA -- CONTROVERR
MORE CONTROVERSIAL IS WHAT KIND
OF COACHING ARE THESE COUNTRIES
GIVING THE WOMEN IN TERMS OF
THEIR VISA APPLICATION AND IN
TERMS OF WHEN THEY ARRIVE IN THE
TERMS OF WHEN THEY
ARRIVE IN THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. ARE THEY BEING
FORTHRIGHT ABOUT
ARE THEY BEING FORTHRIGHT
ABOUT THEIR INTENT.
THEIR INTENT. >> Woodruff:
THESE ARE MIDDLE
>> Woodruff: THESE ARE MIDDLE
CLASS WOMEN, WHO CAN AFFORD TO
PAY TENS OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
TO THE BROKERS TO BE ABLE TO
COME INTO THE U.S. AND DO THIS.
COME INTO THE U.S. AND
DO THIS. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. THE WOMEN I
SPOKE TO SPENT, ON
THE WOMEN I SPOKE TO SPENT,
ON AVERAGE, $50,000.
AVERAGE, $50,000. THEY
STAYED IN THE U.S. FOR
THEY STAYED IN THE U.S.
FOR ABOUT FOUR MONTHS.
ABOUT FOUR MONTHS. SO,
YEAH, YOU KNOW, THEY
SO, YEAH, YOU KNOW, THEY
EXPECTED A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF
SERVICE, BUT THEY ALSO ALL
EXPECTED TO RETURN TO CHINA
AFTER THE FOUR MONTHS.
>> Woodruff: SO, DORIS
MEISSNER, HELP US UNDERSTAND
WHAT LAWS ARE BEING BROKEN.
THEY SOUNDS LIKE TWO DIFFERENT
SETS OF PRACTICE ALSO.
SETS OF PRACTICE ALSO. >>
THEY ARE TWO DIFFERENT SETS
>> THEY ARE TWO DIFFERENT
SETS OF PRACTICES.
OF PRACTICES. THE
CASE OF TOURISM BEING
THE CASE OF TOURISM BEING
DESCRIBED, THIS IS A MISUSE OF
THE IMMIGRATION SYSTEM, A MISUSE
THE IMMIGRATION SYSTEM, A
MISUSE OF THE VISA SYSTEM.
OF THE VISA SYSTEM. IT
IS, AS WAS POINTED OUT,
IT IS, AS WAS POINTED OUT,
COACHING PEOPLE WHAT TO SAY.
THERE IS POSSIBLY FRAUD ON
HOSPITALS FOR NOT TOTALLY PAYING
THE BILLS, POSSIBLY FRAUD ON THE
COMPANIES THEMSELVES FOR NOT
REPORTING INCOME, IT'S ILLEGAL.
>> Woodruff: AND A DIFFERENT
KIND OF LEGALITY WITH REGARD TO
PARENTS, FAMILIES WHO WERE HERE
ILLEGALLY, UNDOCUMENTED, HAVING
CHILDREN WHO DECIDE TO STAY.
>> AND WHO ARE STAYING AND IN
>> AND WHO ARE STAYING
AND IN THE LABOR FORCE.
THE LABOR FORCE. THEY
DIDN'T COME HERE TO HAVE A
THEY DIDN'T COME HERE
TO HAVE A CHILD HERE.
CHILD HERE. THEY
CAME HERE TO WORK.
THEY CAME HERE TO
WORK. LIFE HAPPENS.
LIFE HAPPENS. THEY'RE
HERE FOR A LONGER PERIOD
THEY'RE HERE FOR A LONGER PERIOD
OF TIME, THEY FORM FAMILIES.
THAT'S DIFFERENT FROM COMING
HERE TO GET A U.S. PASSPORT AND
HERE TO GET A U.S.
PASSPORT AND LEAVE.
LEAVE. >> Woodruff:
SUSAN BERFIELD,
>> Woodruff: SUSAN BERFIELD,
HOW MUCH ENFORCEMENT, HOW MUCH
IS THERE AN EFFORT TO GO AFTER
THESE COMPANIES, THESE FIRMS
THAT ARE OFFERING THESE SERVICES
THAT YOU'RE DESCRIBING MAINLY ON
THAT YOU'RE DESCRIBING
MAINLY ON THE WEST COAST?
THE WEST COAST? >>
HOMELAND SECURITY BEGAN AN
>> HOMELAND SECURITY BEGAN AN
INVESTIGATION MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO THAT LED TO RAIDS ON SEVERAL
OF THESE COMPANIES AND THE
APARTNT CMEOMPLEXES WHERE THE
WOMEN WERE HOUSED IN MARCH, IN
WOMEN WERE HOUSED IN MARCH,
IN THE LOS ANGELES AREA.
THE LOS ANGELES AREA. IN
THAT CASE, IT'S ONGOING AND
IN THAT CASE, IT'S ONGOING
AND IN THE COURT SYSTEM NOW.
IN THE COURT SYSTEM NOW. I
THINK FOR HOMELAND SECURITY AS
I THINK FOR HOMELAND SECURITY
AS DORIS IS SUGGESTING, IT'S AN
DORIS IS SUGGESTING, IT'S
AN ISSUE OF VISA FRAUD.
ISSUE OF VISA FRAUD. THEY
FOCUSED THEIR EFFORTS,
THEY FOCUSED THEIR EFFORTS,
THOUGH, ON THE COMPANIES
OPERATING IN THE U.S. AND HAVE
BEEN ACCUSING THEM OF VISA FRAUD
AS WELL AS NOT PAYING TAXES AND
POTENTIAL MONEY LAUNDERING.
POTENTIAL MONEY LAUNDERING. THE
WOMEN WHO WERE CAUGHT UP IN
THE WOMEN WHO WERE CAUGHT UP IN
THOSE RAIDS IN PARTICULAR ARE
BEING HELD AS WITNESSES, BUT
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN CHARGED WITH
THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
CHARGED WITH ANYTHING.
ANYTHING. >> Woodruff:
BOTTOM LINE,
>> Woodruff: BOTTOM LINE, DORIS
MEISSNER, WE WANT TO SAY,
DORIS MEISSNER, WE WANT TO SAY,
ONCE AGAIN, THIS TERM ANCHOR
BABIES WHICH IS A DEROGATORY
TERM THROWN AROUND, ONE HAS TO
BE CAREFUL NOT ONLY ABOUT THE
TERM BUT ABOUT THE DIFFERENT
PRACTICES WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
IT IS A VERY PROJOURTIVE TERM
THAT SUGGESTS PEOPLE ARE COME
HEARING AND THE CHILDREN BORN
HERE HAVE A WAY OF ALLOWING
THEIR PARENTS TO BE HERE
LEGALLY, THAT IS NOT THE CASE.
LEGALLY, THAT IS NOT THE CASE. A
CHILD CANNOT SPONSOR A PARENT
A CHILD CANNOT SPONSOR A
PARENT OR A FAMILY MEMBER FOR
OR A FAMILY MEMBER FOR
IMMIGRATION UNTIL THE AGE OF
MAJORITY, 21 YEARS OF AGE.
MAJORITY, 21 YEARS OF AGE. SO
IT'S PRETTY UNLIKELY TO COMAJ
SO IT'S PRETTY UNLIKELY TO COMAJ
MADGE PEOPLE WHO COME HERE FOR
WORK PURPOSES AND ALSO HAVE
CHILDREN IN THE UNITED STATES
ARE ACTUALLY DOING SO FOR THE
PURPOSE OF 21 YEARS-WAIT IN
ORDER TO THEN HAVE IMMIGRATION .
>> Woodruff: IT'S A SUBJECT
FRONT AND CENTER CERTAINLY IN
THE POLITICAL REALM AND WE THANK
BOTH OF YOU FOR HELPING US
UNDERSTAND THIS PART OF IT
UNDERSTAND THIS
PART OF IT TODAY.
TODAY. THANK YOU,
DORIS MEISSNER AND
THANK YOU, DORIS MEISSNER
AND SUSAN BERFIELD.
SUSAN BERFIELD.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
DIFFERENT LOOK AT THE OIL
DIFFERENT LOOK AT
THE OIL INDUSTRY.
INDUSTRY. AS WE SEE
RECORD LOWS IN CRUDE
AS WE SEE RECORD LOWS IN CRUDE
PRICES, SMALL OIL COMPANIES ARE
LOOKING FOR BIG OPPORTUNITIES.
LEIGH PATTERSON OF INSIDE
ENERGY, A PUBLIC MEDIA
COLLABORATION, FUNDED BY THE
COLLABORATION, FUNDED BY
THE CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC
BROADCASTING, FOCUSING ON
AMERICA'S ENERGY ISSUES, HAS THE
AMERICA'S ENERGY
ISSUES, HAS THE STORY.
STORY. >> Reporter:
DURING THE FRACKING
>> Reporter: DURING THE FRACKING
INDUCED DRILLING FRENZY OF THE
INDUCED DRILLING FRENZY OF
THE LAST FEW YEARS, U.S. OIL
LAST FEW YEARS, U.S. OIL
PRODUCTION HAS SKYROCKETED.
PRODUCTION HAS SKYROCKETED. AND
A LOT OF NATURAL GAS COMES
AND A LOT OF NATURAL GAS COMES
UP AS A BYPRODUCT OF DRILLING
UP AS A BYPRODUCT OF
DRILLING FOR OIL.
FOR OIL. THAT GAS
COULD BE USED TO
THAT GAS COULD BE USED
TO PRODUCE ENERGY
PRODUCE ENERGY >> SO
WE'RE TRYING TO CAPTURE
>> SO WE'RE TRYING TO CAPTURE
>> IT WOULD GET BURNED IN THOSE
FOUR COMBUSTORS RIGHT OVER
FOUR COMBUSTORS
RIGHT OVER THERE.
THERE. WE WOULD GET
TO BREATHE IT.
WE WOULD GET TO BREATHE IT.
>> Reporter: INSTEAD, HANS
MUELLER WANTS TO USE THAT GAS.
HIS COMPANY, ECOVAPOR RECOVERY
SYSTEMS, WORKS WITH OIL
PRODUCERS TO SEPARATE OUT THE
NATURAL GAS AND SELL IT.
NATURAL GAS AND SELL IT. >>
WHEREVER THERE IS A FLARE
>> WHEREVER THERE IS A FLARE
THAT IS BURNING GAS IT JUST
SEEMS LIKE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US
SEEMS LIKE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
US TO COME IN AND INCREASE THE
TO COME IN AND INCREASE THE
EFFICIENCY OF THE ENTIRE
OPERATION, ESSENTIALLY USING
>> Reporter: MUELLER SAYS THE
VALUE OF THE CAPTURED GAS, ONCE
SOLD, CAN BE THREE TIMES GREATER
THAN THE COST OF AN ECOVAPOR
THAN THE COST OF
AN ECOVAPOR UNIT.
UNIT. THAT'S A
STRONG SALES PITCH.
THAT'S A STRONG SALES PITCH.
WITH OIL PRICES SO LOW, OIL
COMPANIES ARE LOOKING TO CUT
COSTS QUICKLY WITH LITTLE
INVESTMENT UP FRONT.
INVESTMENT UP FRONT. AND SO
SOME ENERGY STARTUPS ARE
AND SO SOME ENERGY STARTUPS ARE
PITCHING THEIR PRODUCTS AS WAYS
PITCHING THEIR PRODUCTS AS
WAYS TO SAVE MONEY DURING THE
TO SAVE MONEY DURING
THE DOWNTURN.
DOWNTURN. >>LIQUIGLIDE
IS A TRULY
>>LIQUIGLIDE IS A TRULY
REVOLUTIONARY PRODUCT.
REVOLUTIONARY PRODUCT. >>
Reporter: AT A RECENT ENERGY
>> Reporter: AT A RECENT ENERGY
CONFERENCE, ENERGY STARTUPS WERE
CONFERENCE, ENERGY STARTUPS
WERE HAWKING THEIR WARES.
HAWKING THEIR WARES. THEY
PITCHED EVERYTHING FROM A
THEY PITCHED EVERYTHING FROM A
PRODUCT THAT MAKES ANYTHING LESS
STICKY, INCLUDING CRUDE OIL, TO
STICKY, INCLUDING CRUDE
OIL, TO WEARABLE TECH, AND
WEARABLE TECH, AND
THERMOELECTRIC POWER GENERATION.
>>WHICH TRANSLATES TO LOWER FUEL
>>WHICH TRANSLATES
TO LOWER FUEL COSTS.
COSTS. >> Reporter:
AT THE I.H.S.
>> Reporter: AT THE I.H.S.
CERAWEEK CONFERENCE, ALPHABET
ENERGY C.E.O. MATT SCULLIN SEES
OPPORTUNITIES IN THE DOWNTURN.
>> OIL AND GAS COMPANIES ARE NOW
INVESTING IN EFFICIENCY AND WE
FIT SQUARELY INTO THAT BUCKET.
>> WHAT'S GOOD FOR SHALE IS GOOD
>> WHAT'S GOOD FOR SHALE IS
GOOD FOR THE U.S. ECONOMY.
FOR THE U.S. ECONOMY. >>
Reporter: JOHN HESS, C.E.O.
>> Reporter: JOHN HESS,
C.E.O. OF THE OIL GIANT HESS
OF THE OIL GIANT HESS
CORPORATION, AGREED THERE IS A
CORPORATION, AGREED THERE IS
A GREATER ROLE FOR SMALL,
GREATER ROLE FOR SMALL,
INNOVATOR COMPANIES TO PLAY.
INNOVATOR COMPANIES TO PLAY. >>
I THK THINE LOW PRICE OF OIL
>> I THK THINE LOW PRICE OF OIL
IS CREATING A GREAT OPPORTUNITY
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE TO BUILD
CAREERS AS ENTREPRENEURS AND
CAREERS AS ENTREPRENEURS
AND INNOVATORS.
INNOVATORS. >> Reporter:
REPRESENTATIVES
>> Reporter: REPRESENTATIVES
FROM BIG OIL COMPANIES ARE ALSO
LOOKING TO CROWD-SOURCE IDEAS
FOR NEW ENVIRONMENTAL AND
FOR NEW ENVIRONMENTAL
AND ECONOMIC PROJECTS.
ECONOMIC PROJECTS. BILL
MALONEY, AN EXECUTIVE VICE
BILL MALONEY, AN EXECUTIVE VICE
PRESIDENT AT STATOIL, SAYS THAT
MEANS ASKING FOR PITCHES ONLINE
FROM THINK TANKS, STARTUPS AND
FROM THINK TANKS, STARTUPS
AND REGULAR PEOPLE.
REGULAR PEOPLE. >> WE HOPE
THAT THE BETTER FOLKS
>> WE HOPE THAT THE BETTER FOLKS
OF OUR PLANET CAN COME UP WITH
SOLUTIONS THAT WE CAN UTILIZE IN
SOLUTIONS THAT WE CAN
UTILIZE IN OUR OPERATIONS.
OUR OPERATIONS. >>
Reporter: ONE SOLUTION
>> Reporter: ONE SOLUTION
TECHNOLOGY, A SET OF INSTRUMENTS
WHICH CAN HELP PRODUCERS COLLECT
DETAILED DATA ON THEIR WELLS.
WELLDOG IS A WYOMING COMPANY
THAT MAKES THESE SORT OF
THAT MAKES THESE SORT
OF UNDERGROUND SENSORS.
UNDERGROUND SENSORS. C.E.O.
JOHN POPE SAYS SINCE THE
C.E.O. JOHN POPE SAYS SINCE
THE DOWNTURN, ITS SALES HAVE
DOWNTURN, ITS SALES
HAVE TRIPLED.
TRIPLED. LARGELY BECAUSE
WELLDOG CAN HELP
LARGELY BECAUSE WELLDOG CAN HELP
OIL COMPANIES GET MORE OUT OF
OIL COMPANIES GET MORE
OUT OF THE GROUND.
THE GROUND. >> IN BOOM
TIMES, OPTIMIZING CAN
>> IN BOOM TIMES, OPTIMIZING
CAN LEAD TO INCREASED PROFITS.
LEAD TO INCREASED PROFITS. IN
CHALLENGING TIMES, OPTIMIZING
IN CHALLENGING TIMES, OPTIMIZING
CAN MAKE THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
PROFITS AND NO PROFITS.
PROFITS AND NO PROFITS. >>
Reporter: ADOPTION OF THESE
>> Reporter: ADOPTION OF THESE
TECHNOLOGIES HAS HELPEDIL O
COMPANIES BRING SPENDING DOWN.
COMPANIES BRING SPENDING
DOWN. WAY DOWN.
WAY DOWN. I.H.S., A
CONSULTING COMPANY,
I.H.S., A CONSULTING COMPANY,
PREDICTS WELL COSTS WILL
DECREASE MORE THAN 30% BY THE
DECREASE MORE THAN 30%
BY THE END OF THIS YEAR.
END OF THIS YEAR. BUT
ACCORDING TO I.H.S. ANALYST
BUT ACCORDING TO I.H.S. ANALYST
CHRIS ROBART, OIL COMPANIES HAVE
CHRIS ROBART, OIL COMPANIES
HAVE MANAGED MUCH OF THAT BY
MANAGED MUCH OF THAT BY
SQUEEZING SAVINGS OUT OF THEIR
SERVICE COMPANIES, DEMANDING
THEY LOWER THEIR PRICES ON
THINGS LIKE TRUCKING, DRILLING,
THINGS LIKE TRUCKING,
DRILLING, AND EQUIPMENT.
AND EQUIPMENT. >> BUT
THAT'S KIND OF A ONE TIME
>> BUT THAT'S KIND OF A ONE TIME
EVENT, ONE TIME OCCURRENCE.
THEY CAN ONLY REALLY GET THAT
MUCH PRICING OUT OF THE MARKET
AND OUT OF THEIR WELLS IN 2015
AND OUT OF THEIR WELLS
IN 2015 THIS YEAR.
THIS YEAR. AFTER THAT
THEY WILL HAVE TO GET
AFTER THAT THEY WILL HAVE TO GET
BACK FOCUSED ON THINGS LIKE
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY.
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY. >>
Reporter: AND MANY OF THOSE
>> Reporter: AND MANY OF THOSE
OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES ON THE
TABLE TODAY COULD MAKE OIL AND
TABLE TODAY COULD MAKE OIL
AND GAS BETTER NEIGHBORS.
GAS BETTER NEIGHBORS.
INNOVATIONS THAT WOULD CUT
EMISSIONS, SAVE ON FUEL, AND
REDUCE THE USE OF RESOURCES,
WOULD ALSO MINIMIZE THE IMPACT
WOULD ALSO MINIMIZE THE
IMPACT ON NEARBY COMMUNITIES.
ON NEARBY COMMUNITIES. FOR
EXAMPLE, G.E. ATACE THE AMOT
FOR EXAMPLE, G.E. ATACE THE
AMOT SAND USED IN HYDRAULIC
SAND USED IN HYDRAULIC
FRACTURING WOULD ALSO REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF TRUCKS BRINGING SAND
NUMBER OF TRUCKS BRINGING
SAND TO DRILL SITES.
TO DRILL SITES. AND THAT
MEANS LESS TRAFFIC IN
AND THAT MEANS LESS TRAFFIC IN
COMMUNITIES NEAR OIL AND GAS
COMMUNITIES NEAR OIL
AND GAS DEVELOPMENT.
DEVELOPMENT. BUT INDUSTRY
ANALYST CARL LARRY
BUT INDUSTRY ANALYST CARL LARRY
IS DEEPLY SKEPTICAL THAT BIG OIL
WILL GET SMARTER BECAUSE HE SAYS
WILL GET SMARTER BECAUSE HE
SAYS IT DOESN'T HAVE TO.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO. >>
FOSSIL FUELS, IT IS A SIMPLE
>> FOSSIL FUELS, IT
IS A SIMPLE PROJECT.
PROJECT. WE DRILL,
WE REFINE IT, THAT'S
WE DRILL, WE REFINE IT, THAT'S
ALL WE NEED TO DO TO MAKE MONEY
ALL WE NEED TO DO TO
MAKE MONEY ON THAT.
ON THAT. COMING UP
WITH NEW FANGLED WAYS,
COMING UP WITH NEW FANGLED
WAYS, IT'S EXPENSIVE.
IT'S EXPENSIVE. AND RIGHT
NOW THERE'S NOT A LOT
AND RIGHT NOW THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF MARGIN FOR ERROR TO TAKE A
OF MARGIN FOR ERROR TO TAKE
A CHANCE AND PUT IN A NEW
CHANCE AND PUT IN
A NEW TECHNOLOGY.
TECHNOLOGY. >> Reporter:
MAKING SUBSTANTIAL
>> Reporter: MAKING SUBSTANTIAL
CHANGES IN THE WAY THAT WE
DRILL, LARRY SAYS, REQUIRES
DRILL, LARRY SAYS,
REQUIRES VISION.
VISION. >> WE NEED A
STEVE JOBS IN OIL
>> WE NEED A STEVE
JOBS IN OIL AND GAS.
AND GAS. WE NEED
SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO
WE NEED SOMEBODY WHO IS GOING TO
GO OUT THERE AND TAKE A CHANCE.
GO OUT THERE AND TAKE A
CHANCE. BIG COMPANIES AREN'T.
BIG COMPANIES AREN'T. THEY'RE
JUST GONNA KEEP THEIR
THEY'RE JUST GONNA KEEP
THEIR BUDGETS GOING.
BUDGETS GOING. BUT THE
ONES WHO TAKE THE
BUT THE ONES WHO TAKE THE
CHANCES ARE THE SMALL
BUSINESSES, PEOPLE WHO HAVE THE
GUTS TO TRY AND MAKE SOMETHING
GUTS TO TRY AND
MAKE SOMETHING NEW.
NEW. >> Reporter:
AND AS THE PRICE OF
>> Reporter: AND AS THE PRICE
OF OIL HITS NEW LOWS, THE BIG
OIL HITS NEW LOWS, THE BIG
DEASI FOR OIL'S FUTURE MAY BE
COMING FROM THE LITTLE GUYS.
COMING FROM THE LITTLE GUYS. FOR
THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M LEIGH
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
LEIGH PATERSON IN WYOMING.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, HE WAS ONE OF THE
TWENTIETH CENTURY'S MOST
TWENTIETH CENTURY'S MOST EMINENT
ECONOMISTS, AND IN 1936
EMINENT ECONOMISTS, AND IN 1936
JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES WROTE OF THE
INFLUENCE OF MASS PSYCHOLOGY AND
INFLUENCE OF MASS PSYCHOLOGY
AND THE VOLATILITY OF MARKETS.
THE VOLATILITY OF MARKETS. IT'S
AN ESSAY THAT OUR ECONOMICS
IT'S AN ESSAY THAT OUR ECONOMICS
TEAM THOUGHT WAS TOO RELEVANT,
EVEN 80 YEARS LATER, TO PASS UP.
YOU CAN READ IT, ON OUR HOME
PAGE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT. ON
WEDNESDAY, A CONVERSATION
ON WEDNESDAY, A CONVERSATION
WITH THE FORMER MAYOR OF NEW
ORLEANS, MARC MORIAL, ON
DISPARITIES IN REBUILDING 10
DISPARITIES IN REBUILDING
10 YEARS AFTER KATRINA.
YEARS AFTER KATRINA.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
I'M GWEN IFILL. >>
Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
>> Woodruff: AND
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WOODRUFF. JOIN US
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
TOMORROW EVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.